UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 10-K
 
☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019
☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from ____ to ____
 Commission File Number 1-8923
  
WELL TOWER INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 34-1096634
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)
    
4500 Dorr Street,Toledo,Ohio 43615
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
(419) 247-2800
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of Each Class Trading Symbol(s) Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
Common Stock, $1.00 par value WELL New York Stock Exchange
4.800% Notes due 2028 WELL28 New York Stock Exchange
4.500% Notes due 2034 WELL34 New York Stock Exchange
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes  ☑  No  ☐
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.  Yes  ☐   No  ☑
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.  Yes  ☑  No  ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).  Yes  ☑ 
No  ☐  
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging
growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act. 
Large accelerated filer ☑ Accelerated filer☐Non-accelerated filer☐Smaller reporting company ☐Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised
financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes  ☐   No  ☑
The aggregate market value of the shares of voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing sales price of such
shares on the New York Stock Exchange as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter was $32,986,689,000. 
As of January 31, 2020, the registrant had 410,331,441 shares of common stock outstanding.
 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the annual stockholders’ meeting to be held April 30, 2020, are incorporated by reference into Part III.
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
2019 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
  Page
 PART I
   
Item 1. Business 2
Item 1A. Risk Factors 23
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 35
Item 2. Properties 36
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 37
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 37
   
 PART II
   
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities 38
Item 6. Selected Financial Data 39
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 40
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 60
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 61
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 94
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 94
Item 9B. Other Information 96
   
 PART III
   
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 97
Item 11. Executive Compensation 97
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters97
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 97
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 97
   
 PART IV
   
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 98
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 102
 Signature 103
PART I 
Item 1.  Business 
General
Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care
infrastructure. The company invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the
real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care
experience. Welltower™, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth
markets in the United States (“U.S.”), Canada and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), consisting of seniors housing, post-acute
communities and outpatient medical properties. More information is available on the Internet at www.welltower.com. The
information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included
as an inactive textual reference only.
Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash
dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in
net operating income and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and
health care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location.
References herein to “we,” “us,” “our” or the “company” refer to Welltower Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries
unless specifically noted otherwise.
Portfolio of Properties
Please see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Executive
Summary – Company Overview” for a table that summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2019.
Property Types
We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate and evaluate our business through three reportable segments: Seniors
Housing Operating, Triple-net and Outpatient Medical. For additional information regarding our segments, please see Note 18 to
our consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of
significant accounting policies in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. The following is a summary of our various
property types. 
Seniors Housing Operating
Our seniors housing operating properties include seniors apartments, independent living and independent supportive living,
continuing care retirement communities, assisted living, Alzheimer's/dementia care and include care homes with or without nursing
(U.K.), which assist with activities of daily living that preserve a person's mobility and social systems to promote cognitive
engagement. Our properties include stand-alone properties that provide one level of service, combination properties that provide
multiple levels of service and communities or campuses that provide a wide range of services. Properties are primarily held in joint
venture entities with operating partners. We utilize the structure authorized by the REIT Investment Diversification and
Empowerment Act of 2007, which is commonly referred to as a “RIDEA” structure (the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
authorizing the RIDEA structure were enacted as part of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008). 
Seniors Apartments Seniors apartments refer to age-restricted multi-unit housing with self-contained living units for older adults,
usually aged 55+ who are able to care for themselves. Seniors apartments generally do not offer other additional services such as
meals or transportation.
Independent Living and Independent Supportive Living (Canada)  Independent living and independent supportive living refers to
age-restricted, multifamily properties with central dining that provide residents access to meals and other services such as
housekeeping, linen service, transportation and social and recreational activities. 
Continuing Care Retirement Communities  Continuing care retirement communities typically include a combination of detached
homes and properties offering independent living, assisted living and/or long-term/post-acute care services on one campus. These
communities appeal to residents because there is no need to relocate when health and medical needs change. Resident payment
plans vary, but can include entrance fees, condominium fees and rental fees. Many of these communities also charge monthly
maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. 
Assisted Living  Assisted living refers to state-regulated rental properties that provide independent living services, but also
provide supportive care from trained employees to residents who require assistance with activities of daily living, including, but not
limited to, management of medications, bathing, dressing, toileting, ambulating and eating.
Alzheimer’s/Dementia Care  Certain properties offering assisted living may include state-licensed settings that specialize in
caring for those afflicted with Alzheimer’s disease and/or other types of dementia.
2
Care Homes with or without Nursing (U.K.)  Care homes without nursing, regulated by the Care Quality Commission ("CQC”),
are rental properties that provide essentially the same services as U.S. assisted living. Care homes with nursing, also regulated by
the CQC, are licensed daily rate or rental properties where most individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally,
these properties are licensed for various national and local reimbursement programs. Unlike the U.S., care homes with nursing in
the U.K. generally do not provide post-acute care.
Our Seniors Housing Operating segment accounted for 67%, 69% and 65% of total revenues for the years ended December 31,
2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. As of December 31, 2019, we had relationships with 25 operators to manage our seniors
housing operating properties. In each instance, our partner provides management services to the properties pursuant to an incentive-
based management contract. We rely on our partners to effectively and efficiently manage these properties. For the year ended
December 31, 2019, our relationship with Sunrise Senior Living accounted for approximately 35% of our Seniors Housing
Operating segment revenues and 24% of our total revenues.
Triple-net
Our triple-net properties offer services including independent living and independent supportive living (Canada), assisted living,
continuing care retirement communities, Alzheimer's/dementia care and care homes with or without nursing (U.K.) described
above, as well as long-term/post-acute care. We invest primarily through acquisitions, development and joint venture partnerships.
Our properties are primarily leased to operators under long-term, triple-net master leases that obligate the tenant to pay all operating
costs, utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs, maintenance costs and all obligations under certain ground leases. We
are not involved in property management. Our properties include stand-alone properties that provide one level of service,
combination facilities that provide multiple levels of service, and communities or campuses that provide a wide range of services. 
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care Facilities  Post-acute care is at the leading edge of reducing health care costs while improving
quality. These high-impact centers help patients recover from illness or surgery with the goals of getting the patient home and
healed faster and reducing hospital readmission rates. Our long-term/post-acute care properties generally offer skilled nursing/post-
acute care, inpatient rehabilitation and long-term acute care services. Skilled nursing/post-acute care refers to licensed daily rate or
rental properties where most individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for
Medicaid and/or Medicare reimbursement in the U.S. or provincial reimbursement in Canada. All properties offer some level of
rehabilitation services. Some properties focus on higher acuity patients and offer rehabilitation units specializing in cardiac,
orthopedic, dialysis, neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation. Inpatient rehabilitation properties provide intensive inpatient
services after illness, injury or surgery to patients able to tolerate and benefit from three hours of rehabilitation hours per day. Long-
term acute care properties provide inpatient services for patients with complex medical conditions that require more intensive care,
monitoring or emergency support than is available in most skilled nursing/post-acute care properties.
Our Triple-net segment accounted for 19%, 19% and 22% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and
2017, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2019, our revenues related to our relationship with ProMedica Health System
("ProMedica") accounted for approximately 22% of our Triple-net segment revenues and 4% of total revenues. As of December 31,
2019, our relationship with ProMedica was comprised of a master lease for 218 properties owned by a joint venture landlord of
which we own 80%. In addition to rent, the master lease requires ProMedica to pay all operating costs, utilities, real estate taxes,
insurance, building repairs, maintenance costs and all obligations under certain ground leases. All obligations under the master
lease have been guaranteed by ProMedica. For the year ended December 31, 2019, our revenues related to our relationship with
Genesis HealthCare (“Genesis”) accounted for approximately 14% of our Triple-net segment revenues and 3% of our total
revenues. As of December 31, 2019, our relationship with Genesis was comprised of a master lease for 54 properties owned 100%
by us, six loans with a net balance of $296 million, approximately 9.5 million shares of GEN Series A common stock (representing
approximately 9% of total GEN common stock) and a 25% ownership stake in an unconsolidated joint venture that includes a
master lease for 28 properties operated by Genesis. In addition to rent, the master lease requires Genesis to pay all operating costs,
utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs, maintenance costs and all obligations under certain ground leases. All
obligations under the master lease have been guaranteed by FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC, a subsidiary of Genesis.
Outpatient Medical
Outpatient Medical Buildings  Demand for outpatient medical services is growing as more procedures are performed safely and
efficiently outside the hospital setting. State-of-the-art outpatient centers are needed in accessible, consumer-friendly locations. Our
portfolio of outpatient medical buildings is an integral part of creating health care provider connectivity in local markets and
generally include physician offices, ambulatory surgery centers, diagnostic facilities, outpatient services and/or labs. Approximately
94% of our outpatient medical building portfolio is affiliated with health systems (buildings directly on hospital campuses or with
tenants that are satellite locations for the health system and its physicians). We typically lease our outpatient medical buildings to
multiple tenants and provide varying levels of property management. Our Outpatient Medical segment accounted for 13%, 12%
and 13% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. No single tenant exceeds
20% of segment revenues.
3
Investments
Providing high-quality and affordable health care to an aging global population requires vast investments and infrastructure
development. We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate primarily through acquisitions, developments and joint
venture partnerships. For additional information regarding acquisition and development activity, please see Note 3 to our
consolidated financial statements. Our portfolio creates opportunities to connect partners across the continuum of care and drive
efficiency. We seek to diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location. In determining
whether to invest in a property, we focus on the following: (1) the experience of the obligor’s/partner’s management team; (2) the
historical and projected financial and operational performance of the property; (3) the credit of the obligor/partner; (4) the security
for any lease or loan; (5) the real estate attributes of the building and its location; (6) the capital committed to the property by the
obligor/partner; and (7) the operating fundamentals of the applicable industry. 
We monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of property. Our asset management process for
seniors housing properties generally includes review of monthly financial statements and other operating data for each property,
review of obligor/partner creditworthiness, property inspections, and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real
estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our internal property management division manages and monitors the outpatient
medical portfolio with a comprehensive process including review of, among other things, tenant relations, lease expirations, the
mix of health service providers, hospital/health system relationships, property performance, capital improvement needs, and market
conditions. 
Investment Types 
Real Property  Our properties are primarily comprised of land, buildings, improvements and related rights. Our triple-net
properties are generally leased to operators under long-term operating leases. The leases generally have a fixed contractual term of
12 to 15 years and contain one or more five to 15-year renewal options. Certain of our leases also contain purchase options, a
portion of which could result in the disposition of properties for less than full market value if the options were to be exercised. Most
of our rents are received under triple-net leases requiring the operator to pay rent and all additional charges incurred in the
operation of the leased property. The tenants are required to repair, rebuild and maintain the leased properties. Substantially all
these operating leases are designed with escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally
recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to
leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. 
At December 31, 2019, approximately 95% of our triple-net properties were subject to master leases. A master lease is a lease of
multiple properties to one tenant entity under a single lease agreement. From time to time, we may acquire additional properties
that are then leased to the tenant under the master lease. The tenant is required to make one monthly payment that represents rent on
all the properties that are subject to the master lease. Typically, the master lease tenant can exercise its right to purchase the
properties or to renew the master lease only with respect to all leased properties at the same time. We believe this bundling feature
benefits us because the tenant cannot limit the purchase or renewal to better performing properties and terminate the leasing
arrangement with respect to poorer performing properties. This spreads our risk among the entire group of properties within the
master lease. The bundling feature should provide a similar advantage to us if the master lease tenant is in bankruptcy. Subject to
certain restrictions, a debtor in bankruptcy has the right to assume or reject its unexpired leases and executory contracts. In the
context of integrated master leases such as ours, our tenants in bankruptcy would be required to assume or reject the master lease as
a whole, rather than deciding on a property by property basis. 
Our outpatient medical portfolio is primarily self-managed and consists principally of multi-tenant properties leased to health
care providers. Our leases typically include increasers and some form of operating expense reimbursement by the tenant. As of
December 31, 2019, 77% of our portfolio included leases with full pass through, 20% with a partial expense reimbursement
(modified gross) and 3% with no expense reimbursement (gross). Our outpatient medical leases are non-cancellable operating
leases that have a weighted-average remaining term of seven years at December 31, 2019 and are often credit enhanced by security
deposits, guarantees and/or letters of credit.
Construction  We provide for the construction of properties for tenants primarily as part of long-term operating leases. We
capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds used for the construction of properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is
based upon the amount advanced during the construction period using the rate of interest that approximates our company-wide cost
of financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. The construction period commences upon funding and
terminates upon the earlier of the completion of the applicable property or the end of a specified period. During the construction
period, we advance funds to the tenants in accordance with agreed upon terms and conditions which require, among other things,
periodic site visits by a company representative. During the construction period, we generally require an additional credit
enhancement in the form of payment and performance bonds and/or completion guarantees. At December 31, 2019, we had
outstanding construction investments of $507,931,000 and were committed to provide additional funds of approximately
$446,633,000 to complete construction for investment properties. We also provide for construction loans which, depending on the
terms and conditions, could be treated as loans, real property or investments in unconsolidated entities. 
4
Loans  Our real estate loans are typically structured to provide us with interest income, principal amortization and transaction
fees. Real estate loans consist of mortgage loans and other real estate loans which are primarily collateralized by a first, second or
third mortgage lien, a leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment of the partnership interest in the related properties, corporate
guarantees and/or personal guarantees. Non real estate loans are generally corporate loans with no real estate backing. At
December 31, 2019, we had outstanding loans, net of allowances, of $607,236,000 with an interest yield of approximately 8.0% per
annum. Our yield on loans depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, average principal amount
outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate adjustments. The loans outstanding at December 31, 2019 are generally
subject to one to 15-year terms with principal amortization schedules and/or balloon payments of the outstanding principal balances
at the end of the term.
Investments in Unconsolidated Entities Investments in entities that we do not consolidate but for which we can exercise
significant influence over operating and financial policies are reported under the equity method of accounting. Our investments in
unconsolidated entities generally represent interests ranging from 10% to 50% in real estate assets. Under the equity method of
accounting, our share of the investee’s earnings or losses is included in our consolidated results of operations. The initial carrying
value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based on the amount paid to purchase the entity interest inclusive of transaction
costs. We evaluate our equity method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair value of the equity
method investment to its carrying value. When we determine a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its
carrying value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded. 
In Substance Real Estate Additionally, we provide loans to third parties for the acquisition, development and construction of real
estate. Under these arrangements, it is possible that we will participate in the expected residual profits of the project through the
sale, refinancing or acquisition of the property. We evaluate the characteristics of each arrangement, including its risks and rewards,
to determine whether they are more similar to those associated with a loan or an investment in real estate. Arrangements with
characteristics implying real estate joint ventures are treated as in substance real estate investments, accounted for using the equity
method, and are presented as investments in unconsolidated entities. We have made loans totaling $165,193,000 related to seven
properties as of December 31, 2019, which are classified as in substance real estate investments.
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements are in conformity with U.S general accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) and
include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint venture entities that we control, through voting rights or other
means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
At inception of joint venture transactions, we identify entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting
rights (“variable interest entities” or “VIEs”) and determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations. A
VIE is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial
interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional subordinated financial
support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary. Accounting Standards
Codification Topic 810, "Consolidations", requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to determining whether or not a
VIE will need to be consolidated. This evaluation is based on an enterprise’s ability to direct and influence the activities of a VIE
that most significantly impact that entity’s economic performance.
For investments in joint ventures, U.S. GAAP may preclude consolidation by the sole general partner in certain circumstances
based on the type of rights held by the limited partner(s). We assess the limited partners’ rights and their impact on our
consolidation conclusions, and we reassess if there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited
partners, the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership of limited partnership interests, or there is an increase or
decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of managing members of
limited liability companies.
Borrowing Policies
We utilize a combination of debt and equity to fund investments. Generally, we intend to issue unsecured, fixed-rate public debt
with long-term maturities to approximate the maturities on our triple-net leases and investment strategy. For short-term purposes,
we may borrow on our primary unsecured credit facility or issue commercial paper. We replace these borrowings with long-term
capital such as senior unsecured notes or common stock. When terms are deemed favorable, we may invest in properties subject to
existing mortgage indebtedness. In addition, we may obtain secured financing for unleveraged properties in which we have
invested or may refinance properties acquired on a leveraged basis. In certain agreements with our lenders, we are subject to
restrictions with respect to secured and unsecured indebtedness.
5
Competition
We compete with other real estate investment trusts, real estate partnerships, private equity and hedge fund investors, banks,
insurance companies, finance/investment companies, government-sponsored agencies, taxable and tax-exempt bond funds, health
care operators, developers and other investors in the acquisition, development, leasing and financing of health care and seniors
housing properties. We compete for investments based on a number of factors including relationships, certainty of execution,
investment structures and underwriting criteria. Our ability to successfully compete is impacted by economic and demographic
trends, availability of acceptable investment opportunities, our ability to negotiate beneficial investment terms, availability and cost
of capital, construction and renovation costs and applicable laws and regulations.
The operators/tenants of our properties compete with properties that provide comparable services in the local markets.
Operators/tenants compete for patients and residents based on a number of factors including quality of care, reputation, physical
appearance of properties, location, services offered, family preferences, physicians, staff, and price. We also face competition from
other health care facilities for tenants, such as physicians and other health care providers that provide comparable facilities and
services.
For additional information on the risks associated with our business, please see “Item 1A — Risk Factors” of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.
Environmental, Social and Governance
Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG") Approach Our corporate responsibility and sustainability strategy is focused on
adopting the best ESG practices across our business and we have been recognized for our leadership in this space, including over
the past year:
•Named to Fortune's World's Most Admired Companies List;
•Named to top quintile of Newsweek's inaugural America's Most Responsible Companies list;
•Named to Corporate Responsibility Magazine's 20th Annual 100 Best Corporate Citizens ranking;
•Named to Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the second consecutive year and to the Dow Jones Sustainability
North American Index for the fourth consecutive year;
•Named Energy Star Partner of the Year for the first time;
•Designated as GRESB Green Star for sustainability performance for the fifth consecutive year;
•Named to the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index;
•Achieved ISS-ESG Prime status; and
•Garnered highest environmental and social quality score ratings by ISS.
Environmental We strive to reduce our environmental impact by increasing energy and water efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas
emissions, investing in projects that reduce energy and water consumption that meet our rate of return thresholds and focusing on
the environmental aspects within our supply chain. We have comprehensive employee, tenant and vendor engagement programs in
place focused on operational strategies to drive energy and water efficiency. In our medical office building portfolio, we have
transitioned to a standard green lease, which aligns tenant and landlord interests on energy and water efficiency, and as of the end
of 2018 have executed over 405,000 square feet of green leases. We seek to increase our consumption of green and renewable
energy where possible and have consumed over 32,000 MWh of renewable electricity, an increase of over 6,000 MWh versus the
previous year. We are actively pursuing LEED or BREEAM certification for over 200,000 square feet of our new developments and
have 12 BREEAM, 78 ENERGY STAR, 25 IREM, 12 LEED and 63 Welltower Green Arrow property certifications across our
portfolio. Additionally, 100% of our control boundary, comprised of our managed outpatient medical portfolio, is benchmarked in
EPA ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager and we are constantly working to add to that number.
Year(1) Total ener gy consumption
in control boundary
(MWh)(2)Control boundary ener gy
use intensity (kWH/square
feet)Like-for -like change in
energy consumption
within control boundary(3) Percent renewable ener gy
consumed within control
boundary(4)
2018  300,094 26.20 (1)%  10.82%
2017  302,001 26.37 n/a  8.76%
2016  360,342 22.82 n/a  n/a
6
Year(1)Control boundary water
consumption (kgal)(2)Water use intensity (gallons/square
feet)Like-for -like change in water
consumption within control boundary(3)
2018 293,609 25.6 (3.40)%
2017 303,616 26.5 0.38%
2016 337,081 26.4 n/a
(1) Full 2019 calendar year energy and water data is not available until March 2020. 2018 is the most recent year for which fill energy and water is available and
externally verified.
(2) Our control boundary refers to its managed medical office building portfolio. Energy and water data reported is reflective of control boundary energy and water
consumption.
(3) Like-for-like change in energy consumption within control boundary is not available prior to 2017 due to a change in energy consumption methodology. 2017
represents the first year where tenant data is included in our sustainability performance metrics. Like-for-like change in water consumption within control boundary
is not available prior to 2017 due to lack of available data.
(4) Renewable energy consumption data within control boundary is not available prior to 2017 due to lack of data. The data represent on-site and off-site renewable
energy generated and consumed by properties within our control boundary.
We understand that as we continue to make our operations and buildings more sustainable, we also have a responsibility to look
towards our supply chain and the effect of our purchasing decisions. Welltower created a Supplier Code of Conduct that is
generally integrated into our standard contract to help ensure our suppliers abide by Welltower's ethical standards. We also
developed a Supplier Sustainability Survey that was delivered to our highest spend national accounts. Additionally, we partner with
suppliers that offer take back programs for their products, look for the ENERGY STAR label when purchasing eligible items, seek
to purchase office supply products that contain recycled content and purchase paper products that are either Forest Stewardship
Council or Sustainable forestry initiative certified.
Social We have a number of social initiatives in place that are focused on fostering a more diverse workforce, giving back to our
communities and ensuring the health and wellbeing of our employees, tenants and residents. Over the past five years, since we
began reporting the impact of our charitable contributions through programs such as the Welltower Foundation, we have donated
over $40 million to charitable initiatives related to aging, health care, education and the arts.
We value and are committed to our employees. In addition to enacting progressive recruitment and development programs, we
have reinforced our already strong commitment to diversity and inclusion with the creation of a Diversity Council, which together
with other employee initiatives, supports our efforts to compete for and foster talent in a changing workforce.
Governance We announced changes and appointments to our Board of Directors, resulting in 75% of our independent director
positions being held by minorities and women as of December 31, 2019. We continue to bolster our commitment to transparency
and published our 7th consecutive Annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative
Standards. Additionally, we also improved our already high Dow Jones Sustainability Index, GRESB, ISS and ISS-ESG scores
through enhanced tracking and reporting.
Employees  As of January 31, 2020, we had 443 employees.
Credit Concentrations  Please see Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements.
Geographic Concentrations  Please see “Item 2 – Properties” below and Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements.
Certain Government Regulations
United States
Health Law Matters — Generally
Typically, operators of seniors housing facilities do not receive significant funding from government programs and are largely
subject to state laws, as opposed to federal laws. Operators of long-term/post-acute care facilities and hospitals do receive
significant funding from government programs, and these facilities are subject to extensive regulation, including federal and state
laws covering the type and quality of medical and/or nursing care provided, ancillary services (e.g., respiratory, occupational,
physical and infusion therapies), qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing staff, the adequacy of the physical plant
and equipment, reimbursement and rate setting and operating policies. In addition, as described below, operators of these facilities
are subject to extensive laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including, but not limited to, the federal
Anti-Kickback Statute (“AKS”), the federal Stark Law (“Stark Law”), and the federal False Claims Act (“FCA”), as well as
comparable state laws. Hospitals, physician group practice clinics, and other health care providers that operate in our portfolio are
subject to extensive federal, state, and local licensure, registration, certification, and inspection laws, regulations, and industry
standards, as well as other conditions of participation in federal and state government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid.
Further, operators of long-term care facilities are required to have in place compliance and ethics programs that meet the
requirements of federal laws and regulations. Our tenants’ failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in,
among other things: loss of
7
accreditation; denial of reimbursement; imposition of fines; suspension, decertification, or exclusion from federal and state health
care programs; loss of license; or closure of the facility. See risk factors “The requirements of, or changes to, governmental
reimbursement programs, such as Medicare or Medicaid, could have a material adverse effect on our obligors’ liquidity, financial
condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors’ ability to meet their obligations to us” and “Our
operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws,
regulations, and standards could adversely affect such operators’ or tenants’ operations, which could adversely affect our operators’
and tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us” in “Item 1A – Risk Factors” below. Moreover, in light of certain arrangements
that Welltower may pursue with healthcare entities who are directly subject to laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud
and abuse, and given that certain of our arrangements are structured under the provisions of the REIT Investment Diversification
and Empowerment Act of 2007 ("RIDEA"), certain health care fraud and abuse laws and data privacy laws could apply directly to
Welltower. See risk factor "We assume operational and legal risks with respect to our properties managed in RIDEA structures that
could have a material adverse effect on our business results of operations, and financial condition" in "Item 1A - Risk Factors"
below.
Licensing and Certification
The primary regulations that affect long-term and post-acute care facilities are state licensing and registration laws. For example,
certain health care facilities are subject to a variety of licensure and certificate of need (“CON”) laws and regulations. Where
applicable, CON laws generally require, among other requirements, that a facility demonstrate the need for (1) constructing a new
facility, (2) adding beds or expanding an existing facility, (3) investing in major capital equipment or adding new services, (4)
changing the ownership or control of an existing licensed facility or (5) terminating services that have been previously approved
through the CON process. Certain state CON laws and regulations may restrict the ability of operators to add new properties or
expand an existing facility’s size or services. In addition, CON laws may constrain the ability of an operator to transfer
responsibility for operating a particular facility to a new operator.
With respect to licensure, generally our long-term/post-acute care facilities are required to be licensed and certified for
participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. The failure of our operators to maintain or
renew any required license or regulatory approval as well as the failure of our operators to correct serious deficiencies identified in
a compliance survey could require those operators to discontinue operations at a property. In addition, if a property is found to be
out of compliance with Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state health care program conditions of participation, the property
operator may be excluded from participating in those government health care programs.
Reimbursement
The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care facilities continue to evolve. Federal and state authorities have
considered and implemented and may continue seeking to implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies, including
value-based reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact health care property operations. Likewise, third-party payors
may continue imposing greater controls on operators, including through changes in reimbursement rates and fee structures. The
impact of any such changes, if implemented, may result in a material adverse effect on our portfolio. No assurance can be given
that current revenue sources or levels will be maintained. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that payments under a government
health care program are currently, or will be in the future, sufficient to fully reimburse the property operators for their operating and
capital expenses.
•Seniors Housing Facilities  The majority of the revenues received by the operators of U.S. seniors housing facilities are from
private pay sources. The remaining revenue source is primarily Medicaid provided under state waiver programs for home and
community based care. There can be no guarantee that a state Medicaid program operating pursuant to a waiver will be able to
maintain its waiver status. Rates paid by self-pay residents are set by the facilities and are determined by local market
conditions and operating costs. Generally, facilities receive a higher payment per day for a private pay resident than for a
Medicaid beneficiary who requires a comparable level of care. The level of Medicaid reimbursement varies from state to
state. Thus, the revenues generated by operators of our assisted living facilities may be adversely affected by payor mix, acuity
level, changes in Medicaid eligibility and reimbursement levels.
•Long-Term/Post-Acute Care Facilities  The majority of the revenues received by the operators of these facilities are from the
Medicare and Medicaid programs, with the balance representing reimbursement payments from private payors. Consequently,
changes in federal or state reimbursement policies may adversely affect an operator’s ability to cover its expenses, including
our rent or debt service. Long-term/post-acute care facilities are subject to periodic pre- and post-payment reviews and other
audits by federal and state authorities. A review or audit of a property operator’s claims could result in recoupments, denials or
delay of payments in the future. Due to the significant judgments and estimates inherent in payor settlement accounting, no
assurance can be given as to the adequacy of any reserves maintained by our property operators to cover potential adjustments
to reimbursements or to cover settlements made to payors.
◦Medicare Reimbursement  Generally, long-term/post-acute care facilities are reimbursed by Medicare under prospective
payment systems, which generally provide reimbursement based upon a predetermined fixed amount per episode of care
and are updated by CMS, an agency of the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) annually. There is a risk
8
under these payment systems that costs will exceed the fixed payments, or that payments may be set below the costs to
provide certain items and services. In addition, the HHS Office of Inspector General has released recommendations to
address SNF billing practices and Medicare payment rates. If followed, these recommendations regarding SNF payment
reform may impact our tenants and operators.
◦Medicaid Reimbursement  Many states reimburse SNFs using fixed daily rates, which are applied prospectively based on
patient acuity and the historical costs incurred in providing patient care. In most states, Medicaid does not fully reimburse
the cost of providing services. Certain states are attempting to slow the rate of Medicaid growth by freezing rates or
restricting eligibility and benefits. In addition, Medicaid reimbursement rates may decline if state revenues in a particular
state are not sufficient to fund budgeted expenditures.
•Medicare Reimbursement for Physicians, Hospital Outpatient Departments (“HOPDs”), and Ambulatory Surgical Centers
(“ASCs”) Changes in reimbursement to physicians, HOPDs and ASCs may further affect our tenants and operators.  Generally,
Medicare reimburses physicians under the Physician Fee Schedule, while HOPDs and ASCs are reimbursed under prospective
payment systems. The Physician Fee Schedule and the HOPD and ASC prospective payment systems are updated annually by
CMS. These annual Medicare payment regulations have resulted in lower net pay increases than providers of those services
have often expected. In addition, the Medicare and Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015
(“MACRA”) includes payment reductions for providers who do not meet government quality standards. The implementation
of pay-for-quality models like those required under MACRA is expected to produce funding disparities that could adversely
impact some provider tenants in outpatient medical buildings and other health care properties. Changes in Medicare Advantage
plan payments may also indirectly affect our operators and tenants that contract with Medicare Advantage plans.
•Health Reform Laws  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of
2010 (collectively, the “Health Reform Laws”) dramatically altered how health care is delivered and reimbursed in the U.S.
and contained various provisions, including Medicaid expansion and the establishment of Health Insurance Exchanges
(“HIEs”) providing subsidized health insurance, that may directly impact us or the operators and tenants of our properties. The
status of the Health Reform Laws may be subject to change as a result of political, legislative, regulatory and administrative
developments and judicial proceedings. While legislative attempts to completely repeal the Health Reform Laws have been
unsuccessful to date, there have been multiple attempts to repeal or amend the Health Reform Laws through legislative action
and legal challenges. Since taking office, President Trump and the current U.S. Congress have sought to modify, repeal or
otherwise invalidate all or portions of the Health Reform Laws. For example, in December 2017, the U.S. Congress passed the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which included a provision that eliminates the penalty under the Health Reform Laws’ individual
mandate, effective in 2019, and could impact the future state of the HIEs established by the Health Reform Laws. In December
2018, a federal district court in Texas ruled the individual mandate was unconstitutional and could not be severed from the
Health Reform Laws. As a result, the court ruled the remaining provisions of the Health Reform Laws were also invalid,
though the court declined to issue a preliminary injunction with respect to the Health Reform Laws. In December 2019, the
Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals agreed that the individual mandate was unconstitutional, but remanded the case back to the
district court to reassess how much of the Health Reform Laws would be damaged without the individual mandate provision,
and if the individual mandate could indeed be severed. In January 2020, 21 state Attorney Generals urged the Supreme Court
of the United States to decide whether or not the Health Reform Laws should be struck down as unconstitutional, claiming that
the Fifth Circuit erroneously remanded the case to the Texas district court. The House of Representatives filed a similar
petition and motion to expedite. This litigation is still ongoing, but places great uncertainty upon the longevity and nature of
the Health Reform Laws moving forward. There is still uncertainty with respect to the additional impact President Trump’s
Administration and the U.S. Congress may have, if any, and any changes will likely take time to unfold, and could have an
impact on coverage and reimbursement for health care items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the Health
Reform Laws. We cannot predict whether the existing Health Reform Laws, or future health care reform legislation or
regulatory changes, will have a material impact on our operators’ or tenants’ property or business.
Fraud & Abuse Enforcement
Long-term/post-acute care facilities (and seniors housing facilities that receive Medicaid payments) are subject to federal, state,
and local laws, regulations, and applicable guidance that govern the operations and financial and other arrangements that may be
entered into by health care providers. Certain of these laws, such as the AKS and Stark Law, prohibit direct or indirect payments of
any kind for the purpose of inducing or encouraging the referral of patients for medical products or services reimbursable by
government health care programs. Other government health program laws require providers to furnish only medically necessary
services and submit to the government valid and accurate statements for each service. Our operators and tenants that receive
payments from federal health care programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, are subject to substantial financial penalties under the
Civil Monetary Penalties Act and the FCA upon a finding of noncompliance with such laws. In addition, states may also have
separate false claims acts, which, among other things, generally prohibit health care providers from filing false claims or making
false statements to receive payments. Federal and state FCAs contain "whistleblower" provisions that permit private individuals to
bring health care fraud enforcement claims on behalf of the government. Still other laws require providers to comply with a variety
of safety, health and other requirements relating to the condition of the licensed property and the quality of care
9
provided. Sanctions for violations of these laws, regulations and other applicable guidance may include, but are not limited to,
criminal and/or civil penalties and fines, loss of licensure, immediate termination of government payments, exclusion from any
government health care program, damage assessments and imprisonment. In certain circumstances, violation of these rules (such as
those prohibiting abusive and fraudulent behavior) with respect to one property may subject other facilities under common control
or ownership to sanctions, including exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as other
government health care programs. In the ordinary course of its business, a property operator is regularly subjected to inquiries,
investigations and audits by the federal and state agencies that oversee these laws and regulations.
Prosecutions, investigations or whistleblower actions could have a material adverse effect on a property operator’s liquidity,
financial condition, and operations, which could adversely affect the ability of the operator to meet its financial obligations to us. In
addition, government investigations and enforcement actions brought against the health care industry have increased dramatically
over the past several years and are expected to continue. The costs for an operator of a health care property associated with both
defending such enforcement actions and the undertakings in settling these actions can be substantial and could have a material
adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us. In addition, Welltower could potentially be directly subject
to these health care fraud and abuse laws, as well as potential investigation or enforcement, as a result of our RIDEA-structured
arrangements, and certain collaboration or other arrangements we may pursue with stakeholders who are directly subject to these
laws.
Federal and State Data Privacy and Security Laws
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), as amended by the Health Information Technology
for Economic and Clinical Health Act, and numerous other state and federal laws govern the collection, security, dissemination,
use, access to and confidentiality of personal information, including individually identifiable health information. Violations of these
laws may result in substantial civil and/or criminal fines and penalties. The costs to the business or for an operator of a health care
property associated with developing and maintaining programs and systems to comply with data privacy and security laws,
defending against privacy and security related claims or enforcement actions and paying any assessed fines, can be substantial.
Moreover, such costs could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us. Finally, data
privacy and security laws and regulations continue to develop, including with regard to HIPAA and U.S. state privacy laws such as
the California Consumer Privacy Act. These developments may add potential uncertainty towards compliance obligations, business
operations or transactions that depend on data. These new privacy laws may create restrictions or requirements in our, operators and
other business partner's use, sharing and securing of data. New privacy and security laws further could require substantial
investment in resources to comply with regulatory changes as privacy and security laws proliferate in divergent ways or impose
additional obligations.
United Kingdom
In the U.K., care home services are principally regulated by the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (as amended) and other
regulations. This legislation subjects service providers to a number of legally binding “Fundamental Standards” and requires,
amongst other things, that all persons carrying out “Regulated Activities” in the U.K., and the managers of such persons, be
registered. Providers of care home services are also subject (as data controllers) to laws governing their use of personal data
(including in relation to their employees, clients and recipients of their services). These laws currently take the form of the U.K.’s
Data Protection Act 2018 and the European Union’s (“EU”) General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) among other laws. The
Data Protection Act and the GDPR impose a significant number of obligations on controllers with the potential for fines of up to
4% of annual worldwide turnover or €20 million, whichever is greater. Entities incorporated in or carrying on a business in the
U.K., as well as individuals residing in the U.K., are also subject to the U.K. Bribery Act 2010. The U.K. has national minimum
wage legislation with a maximum fine for non-payment of £20,000 per worker and employers who fail to pay will be banned from
being a company director for up to 15 years. The national minimum wage is set to increase in April 2020.
The U.K. exited from the EU (“Brexit”) on January 31, 2020. U.K. There will be a transition period until the end of 2020 during
which time the U.K. will continue to abide by all EU rules while it seeks to negotiate its relationship with the EU, which would
include inter alia the regulation and import of medicines. Further, the impact of Brexit on the health and care workforce will
depend on future migration policy and the barriers or incentives to live in the U.K. Until the terms of the withdrawal are finally
determined we cannot predict the impact of Brexit on U.K. regulations.
Canada
Senior living residences in Canada are provincially regulated. Within each province, there are different categories for senior
living residences that are generally based on the level of care sought and/or required by a resident (e.g. assisted or retirement living,
senior living residences, residential care, long-term care). In some of these categories and depending on the province, residences
may be government funded, or the individual residents may be eligible for a government subsidy, while other residences are
exclusively private-pay. The governing legislation and regulations vary by province, but generally the object of the laws is to set
licensing requirements and minimum standards for senior living residences, and regulate operations. These laws empower
regulators in each province to take a variety of steps to ensure compliance, conduct inspections, issue reports and generally regulate
the industry.
10
Our operations in Canada are subject to privacy legislation, including, in certain provinces, privacy laws specifically related to
personal health information. Although the obligations of senior living residences in the various provinces differ, they all include the
obligation to protect personal information. Under some of these laws, notification to the regulator in the event of an actual or
suspected privacy breach is mandatory. The powers of privacy regulators and penalties for violations of privacy law vary according
to the applicable law or are left to the courts. Senior living residences may also be subject to laws pertaining to residential tenancy,
provincial and/or municipal laws applicable to fire safety, food services, zoning, occupational health and safety, public health and
the provision of community health care and funded long-term/post-acute care.
Taxation
The following summary of the taxation of the company and the material U.S. federal income tax consequences to the holders of
our debt and equity securities is for general information only and is not tax advice. This summary does not address all aspects of
taxation that may be relevant to certain types of holders of stock or securities (including, but not limited to, insurance companies,
tax-exempt entities, financial institutions or broker-dealers, persons holding shares of common stock as part of a hedging,
integrated conversion, or constructive sale transaction or a straddle, traders in securities that use a mark-to-market method of
accounting for their securities, investors in pass-through entities and foreign corporations and persons who are not citizens or
residents of the United States).
This summary does not discuss all of the aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be relevant to you in light of your
particular investment or other circumstances. In addition, this summary does not discuss any state or local income taxation or
foreign income taxation or other foreign tax consequences. This summary is based on current U.S. federal income tax laws. A
discussion of the potential implications to the Company of the Tax Act is provided at the end of this summary below. Subsequent
developments in U.S. federal income tax law, including changes in law or differing interpretations, which may be applied
retroactively, could have a material effect on the U.S. federal income tax consequences of purchasing, owning and disposing of our
securities as set forth in this summary. Before you purchase our securities, you should consult your own tax advisor regarding the
particular U.S. federal, state, local, foreign and other tax consequences of acquiring, owning and selling our securities.
General
We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (a “REIT”) commencing with our first taxable year. We intend to continue
to operate in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT, but there is no guarantee that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for
subsequent years. Qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet a variety of qualification tests imposed
under U.S. federal income tax law with respect to our income, assets, distributions and share ownership, as discussed below under
“Qualification as a REIT.” There can be no assurance that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT.
In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, in general, we will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on that portion of our
REIT taxable income or capital gain that is distributed to stockholders. We may, however, be subject to tax at normal corporate
rates on any taxable income or capital gain not distributed. If we elect to retain and pay income tax on our net capital gain,
stockholders would be taxed on their proportionate share of our undistributed net capital gain and would receive a refundable credit
for their share of any taxes paid by us on such gain.
Despite the REIT election, we may be subject to U.S. federal income and excise tax as follows:
•To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our “REIT
taxable income,” as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates;
•If we have net income from the sale or other disposition of “foreclosure property” that is held primarily for sale to customers
in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, such income will be taxed at
the highest corporate rate;
•Any net income from prohibited transactions (which are, in general, sales or other dispositions of property held
primarily    for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, other than dispositions of foreclosure property) will be
subject    to a 100% tax;
•If we fail to satisfy either the 75% or 95% gross income tests (as discussed below), but nonetheless maintain our
qualification as a REIT because certain other requirements are met, we will be subject to a 100% tax on an amount equal to
(1) the gross income attributable to the greater of (i) 75% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income
for purposes of the 75% gross income test (discussed below) or (ii) 95% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying
gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test (discussed below) multiplied by (2) a fraction intended to reflect our
profitability;
•If we fail to distribute during each year at least the sum of (1) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for the year, (2) 95% of our
REIT capital gain net income for such year (other than capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on) and (3) any
undistributed taxable income from preceding periods, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax on the excess of such required
distribution over amounts actually distributed; and
11
•We will be subject to a 100% tax on certain amounts from certain transactions involving our “taxable REIT subsidiaries” that
are not conducted on an arm’s length basis. See “Qualification as a REIT - Investments in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries.
If we acquire any assets from a corporation, which is or has been a “C” corporation, in a carryover basis transaction (including
where a “C” corporation elects REIT status), we could be liable for specified liabilities that are inherited from the “C” corporation.
A “C” corporation is generally defined as a corporation that is required to pay full corporate level U.S. federal income tax. If we
recognize gain on the disposition of the assets during the five-year period beginning on the date on which the assets were acquired
by us, then, to the extent of the assets’ “built-in gain” (e.g., the excess of the fair market value of the asset over the adjusted tax
basis of the asset, in each case determined as of the beginning of the five-year period), we will be subject to tax on the gain at the
highest regular corporate rate applicable. The results described in this paragraph with respect to the recognition of built-in gain
assume that the “C” corporation did not make and was not treated as making an election to treat the built-in gain assets as sold to an
unrelated party. For those properties that are subject to the built-in gains tax, the potential amount of built-in gains tax will be an
additional factor when considering a possible sale of the properties within the five-year period beginning on the date on which the
properties were acquired by us. See Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the built-
in gains tax.
Qualification as a REIT
A REIT is defined as a corporation, trust or association:
(1)which is managed by one or more trustees or directors;
(2)the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest;
(3)which would be taxable as a domestic corporation but for the U.S. federal income tax law relating to REITs;
(4)which is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company;
(5)the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons in each taxable year of the REIT except for its first
taxable year;
(6)not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is owned during the last half of each taxable year, excluding
its first taxable year, directly, indirectly or constructively, by or for five or fewer individuals (which includes certain
entities) (the “Five or Fewer Requirement”); and
(7)which meets certain income and asset tests described below.
Conditions (1) to (4), inclusive, must be met during the entire taxable year and condition (5) must be met during at least 335 days
of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. For purposes of conditions
(5) and (6), pension funds and certain other tax-exempt entities are treated as individuals, subject to a “look-through” exception in
the case of condition (6).
Based on publicly available information, we believe we have satisfied the share ownership requirements set forth in (5) and
(6) above. In addition, Article VI of our by-laws provides for restrictions regarding ownership and transfer of shares. These
restrictions are intended to assist us in continuing to satisfy the share ownership requirements described in (5) and (6) above but
may not ensure that we will, in all cases, be able to satisfy such requirements.
We have complied with, and will continue to comply with, regulatory rules to send annual letters to certain of our stockholders
requesting information regarding the actual ownership of our stock. If, despite sending the annual letters, we do not know, or after
exercising reasonable diligence would not have known, whether we failed to meet the Five or Fewer Requirement, we will be
treated as having met the Five or Fewer Requirement. If we fail to comply with these regulatory rules, we will be subject to a
monetary penalty. If our failure to comply were due to intentional disregard of the requirement, the penalty would be increased.
However, if our failure to comply were due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, no penalty would be imposed.
We may own a number of properties through wholly owned subsidiaries. A corporation will qualify as a “qualified REIT
subsidiary” if 100% of its stock is owned by a REIT, and the REIT does not elect to treat the subsidiary as a taxable REIT
subsidiary. A “qualified REIT subsidiary” will not be treated as a separate corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and all
assets, liabilities and items of income, deductions and credits of a “qualified REIT subsidiary” will be treated as assets, liabilities
and items (as the case may be) of the REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A “qualified REIT subsidiary” is not subject to
U.S. federal income tax, and our ownership of the voting stock of a qualified REIT subsidiary will not violate the restrictions
against ownership of securities of any one issuer which constitute more than 10% of the value or total voting power of such issuer
or more than 5% of the value of our total assets, as described below under “- Asset Tests.”
12
If we invest in an entity treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be deemed to own a proportionate
share of the entity’s assets. Likewise, we will be treated as receiving our share of the income and loss of the entity, and the gross
income will retain the same character in our hands as it has in the hands of the entity. These “look-through” rules apply for
purposes of the income tests and assets tests described below.
The deduction of business interest is limited to 30% of adjusted taxable income, which may limit the deductibility of interest
expense by us, our taxable REIT subsidiaries, or our joint venture and partnership arrangements. A “real property trade or business”
may irrevocably elect out of the applicability of the limitation, but if it does so it must use the less favorable alternative
depreciation system to depreciate real property used in the trade or business. Proposed regulations provide guidance on how to
allocate interest deductions among multiple trades or businesses and contain special rules, including a safe harbor, regarding the
allocation of a REIT’s interest deductions to a “real property trade or business.”
Income Tests  There are two separate percentage tests relating to our sources of gross income that we must satisfy each taxable year:
•At least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) generally
must be directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from “rents from real property,” other income from investments
relating to real property or mortgages on real property or certain income from qualified temporary investments.
•At least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) generally
must be directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from any of the sources qualifying for the 75% gross income test and
from dividends (including dividends from taxable REIT subsidiaries) and interest.
Income from hedging and foreign currency transactions is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests if certain
requirements are met but otherwise will constitute gross income which does not qualify under the 95% or 75% gross income tests.
Rents received by us will qualify as “rents from real property” for purposes of satisfying the gross income tests for a REIT only if
several conditions are met:
•The amount of rent must not be based in whole or in part on the income or profits of any person, although rents generally
will not be excluded merely because they are based on a fixed percentage or percentages of receipts or sales.
•Rents received from a tenant will not qualify as rents from real property if the REIT, or an owner of 10% or more of the
REIT, also directly or constructively owns 10% or more of the tenant, unless the tenant is our taxable REIT subsidiary and
certain other requirements are met with respect to the real property being rented.
•If rent attributable to personal property leased in connection with a lease of real property is greater than 15% of the total rent
received under the lease, then the portion of rent attributable to such personal property will not qualify as “rents from real
property.”
•For rents to qualify as rents from real property, we generally must not furnish or render services to tenants, other than
through a taxable REIT subsidiary or an “independent contractor” from whom we derive no income, except that we may
directly provide services that are usually or customarily rendered in the geographic area in which the property is located in
connection with the rental of real property for occupancy only or are not otherwise considered rendered to the occupant for
his convenience.
•We may lease “qualified health care properties” on an arm’s-length basis to a taxable REIT subsidiary if the property is
operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an “independent contractor” and who is, or is related to a
person who is, actively engaged in the trade or business of operating health care facilities for any person unrelated to us or
our taxable REIT subsidiary (such person, an “eligible independent contractor”). If this is the case, the rent that the REIT
receives from the taxable REIT subsidiary generally will be treated as “rents from real property.” A “qualified health care
property” includes any real property and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital,
nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility
that extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients and is operated by a provider of such services that is eligible
for participation in the Medicare program with respect to such facility.
A REIT is permitted to render a de minimis amount of impermissible services to tenants and still treat amounts received with
respect to that property as rent from real property. The amount received or accrued by the REIT during the taxable year for the
impermissible services with respect to a property may not exceed 1% of all amounts received or accrued by the REIT directly or
indirectly from the property. The amount received for any service or management operation for this purpose shall be deemed to be
not less than 150% of the direct cost of the REIT in furnishing or rendering the service or providing the management or operation.
Furthermore, impermissible services may be furnished to tenants by a taxable REIT subsidiary subject to certain conditions, which
would permit us to still treat rents received with respect to the property as rent from real property.
13
The term “interest” generally does not include any amount if the determination of the amount depends in whole or in part on the
income or profits of any person, although an amount generally will not be excluded from the term “interest” solely by reason of
being based on a fixed percentage of receipts or sales.
If we fail to satisfy one or both of the 75% or 95% gross income tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a
REIT for such year if we are eligible for certain relief provisions provided by the Internal Revenue Code. These relief provisions
generally will be available if (1) following our identification of the failure, we file a schedule for such taxable year describing each
item of our gross income, and (2) the failure to meet such tests was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect. It is not
now possible to determine the circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions. If these relief
provisions apply, a 100% tax is imposed on an amount equal to (1) the gross income attributable to (i) 75% of our gross income
over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75% income test and (ii) 95% of our gross income over the amount
of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 95% income test, multiplied by (2) a fraction intended to reflect our profitability.
The Secretary of the Treasury is given broad authority to determine whether particular items of income or gain qualify under the
75% and 95% gross income tests and to exclude items from the measure of gross income for such purposes.
Asset Tests  Within 30 days after the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also satisfy several tests relating to the
nature and diversification of our assets determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. At least 75% of the
value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets (including interests in real property, interests in mortgages on real
property or on interests in real property, shares in other REITs and debt instruments issued by publicly offered REITs), cash, cash
items (including receivables arising in the ordinary course of our operation), government securities and qualified temporary
investments. Although the remaining 25% of our assets generally may be invested without restriction, we are prohibited from
owning securities representing more than 10% of either the vote (the “10% vote test”) or value (the “10% value test”) of the
outstanding securities of any issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary, another REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Further, no
more than 20% of our total assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (the “20% asset test”)
and no more than 5% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of any non-governmental issuer other than a
qualified REIT subsidiary (the “5% asset test”), another REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Each of the 10% vote test, the 10%
value test and the 20% and 5% asset tests must be satisfied at the end of each quarter. There are special rules which provide relief if
the value-related tests are not satisfied due to changes in the value of the assets of a REIT.
Certain items are excluded from the 10% value test, including: (1) straight debt securities meeting certain requirements; (2) any
loan to an individual or an estate; (3) any rental agreement described in Section 467 of the Internal Revenue Code, other than with a
“related person”; (4) any obligation to pay rents from real property; (5) certain securities issued by a state or any subdivision
thereof, the District of Columbia, a foreign government, or any political subdivision thereof, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
(6) any security issued by a REIT; and (7) any other arrangement that, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, is excepted
from the definition of security (“excluded securities”). If a REIT, or its taxable REIT subsidiary, holds (1) straight debt securities of
a corporate or partnership issuer and (2) securities of such issuer that are not excluded securities and have an aggregate value
greater than 1% of such issuer’s outstanding securities, the straight debt securities will be included in the 10% value test.
A REIT’s interest as a partner in a partnership is not treated as a security for purposes of applying the 10% value test to securities
issued by the partnership. Further, any debt instrument issued by a partnership that is not an excluded security will not be a security
for purposes of applying the 10% value test (1) to the extent of the REIT’s interest as a partner in the partnership or (2) if at least
75% of the partnership’s gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) would qualify for the 75% gross
income test. For purposes of the 10% value test, a REIT’s interest in a partnership’s assets is determined by the REIT’s
proportionate interest in any securities issued by the partnership (other than the excluded securities described in the preceding
paragraph).
If a REIT or its “qualified business unit” uses a foreign currency as its functional currency, the term “cash” includes such foreign
currency, but only to the extent such foreign currency is (i) held for use in the normal course of the activities of the REIT or
“qualified business unit” which give rise to items of income or gain that are included in the 95% and 75% gross income tests or are
directly related to acquiring or holding assets qualifying under the 75% asset test, and (ii) not held in connection with dealing or
engaging in substantial and regular trading in securities.
With respect to corrections of failures as to violations of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test or the 5% asset test, a REIT may
avoid disqualification as a REIT by disposing of sufficient assets to cure a violation due to the ownership of assets that do not
exceed the lesser of 1% of the REIT’s assets at the end of the relevant quarter or $10,000,000, provided that the disposition occurs
within six months following the last day of the quarter in which the REIT first identified the assets. For violations of any of the
REIT asset tests due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect that exceed the thresholds described in the preceding sentence, a
REIT can avoid disqualification as a REIT after the close of a taxable quarter by taking certain steps, including disposition of
sufficient assets within the six month period described above to meet the applicable asset test, paying a tax equal to the greater of
$50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the non-qualifying assets during the period of
time that the assets were held as non-qualifying assets and filing a schedule with the Internal Revenue Service that describes the
non-qualifying assets.
14
Investments in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries  REITs may own more than 10% of the voting power and value of securities in taxable
REIT subsidiaries. Unlike a qualified REIT subsidiary, other disregarded entity or partnership, the income and assets of a taxable
REIT subsidiary are not attributable to the REIT for purposes of satisfying the income and asset ownership requirements applicable
to REIT qualification. We and any taxable corporate entity in which we own an interest are allowed to jointly elect to treat such
entity as a “taxable REIT subsidiary.”
Certain of our subsidiaries have elected taxable REIT subsidiary status. Taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to full corporate
level U.S. federal taxation on their earnings but are permitted to engage in certain types of activities that cannot be performed
directly by REITs without jeopardizing their REIT status. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries will attempt to minimize the amount of
these taxes, but there can be no assurance whether or the extent to which measures taken to minimize taxes will be successful. To
the extent our taxable REIT subsidiaries are required to pay U.S. federal, state or local taxes, the cash available for distribution as
dividends to us from our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be reduced.
The Internal Revenue Service may redetermine amounts from transactions between a REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiary
where there is a lack of arm’s-length dealing between the parties. Any taxable income allocated to, or deductible expenses allocated
away, from a taxable REIT subsidiary would increase its tax liability. Further, certain amounts from certain transactions involving a
REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiaries could be subject to a 100% tax if not conducted on an arm’s length basis. Additional taxable
REIT subsidiary elections may be made in the future for additional entities in which we obtain an interest.
Annual Distribution Requirements  In order to avoid being taxed as a regular corporation, we are required to make distributions
(other than capital gain distributions) to our stockholders which qualify for the dividends paid deduction in an amount at least equal
to (1) the sum of (i) 90% of our “REIT taxable income” (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net
capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the after-tax net income, if any, from foreclosure property, minus (2) a portion of certain items of non-
cash income. These distributions must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if declared
before we timely file our tax return for that year and if paid on or before the first regular distribution payment after such
declaration. Prior to 2014, with respect to all REITs the amount distributed could not be preferential. This means that every
stockholder of the class of stock to which a distribution is made must be treated the same as every other stockholder of that class,
and no class of stock may be treated otherwise than in accordance with its dividend rights as a class (the “preferential dividend
rule”). Beginning in tax years after 2014, the preferential dividend rule no longer applies to publicly offered REITs, however, the
rule is still applicable to other entities taxed as REITs, which would include several of our subsidiaries. To the extent that we do not
distribute all of our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our “REIT taxable income,” as adjusted, we
will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates. As discussed above, we may be subject to an excise
tax if we fail to meet certain other distribution requirements. We believe we have satisfied the annual distribution requirements for
the year of our initial REIT election and each year thereafter through the year ended December 31, 2019. Although we intend to
make timely distributions sufficient to satisfy these annual distribution requirements for subsequent years, economic, market, legal,
tax or other factors could limit our ability to meet those requirements. See “Item 1A - Risk Factors.”
It is also possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution
requirement, or to distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, due to, among other
things, (1) timing differences between (i) the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses and (ii) the
inclusion of income and deduction of expenses in arriving at our taxable income, or (2) the payment of severance benefits that may
not be deductible to us. In the event that timing differences occur, we may find it necessary to arrange for borrowings or, if
possible, pay dividends in the form of taxable stock dividends in order to meet the distribution requirement.
Under certain circumstances, including in the event of a deficiency determined by the Internal Revenue Service, we may be able
to rectify a resulting failure to meet the distribution requirement for a year by paying “deficiency dividends” to stockholders in a
later year, which may be included in our deduction for distributions paid for the earlier year. Thus, we may be able to avoid being
disqualified as a REIT and/or taxed on amounts distributed as deficiency dividends; however, we will be required to pay applicable
penalties and interest based upon the amount of any deduction taken for deficiency dividend distributions.
Failure to Qualify as a REIT
If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable
income at regular corporate rates. Distributions to stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify as a REIT will not be
deductible nor will any particular amount of distributions be required to be made in any year. All distributions to stockholders will
be taxable as dividends to the extent of current and accumulated earnings and profits allocable to these distributions and, subject to
certain limitations, will be eligible for the dividends received deduction for corporate stockholders. Unless entitled to relief under
specific statutory provisions, we also will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year
during which qualification was lost. It is not possible to state whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to statutory relief.
Failure to qualify for even one year could result in our need to incur indebtedness or liquidate investments in order to pay
potentially significant resulting tax liabilities.
15
In addition to the relief described above under “Income Tests” and “Asset Tests,” relief is available in the event that we violate a
provision of the Internal Revenue Code that would result in our failure to qualify as a REIT if: (1) the violation is due to reasonable
cause and not due to willful neglect; (2) we pay a penalty of $50,000 for each failure to satisfy the provision; and (3) the violation
does not include a violation described under “Income Tests” or “Asset Tests” above. It is not now possible to determine the
circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions.
U.S. Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Our Stock
Treatment of Taxable U.S. Stockholders  The following summary applies to you only if you are a “U.S. stockholder.” A
“U.S. stockholder” is a holder of shares of stock who, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, is:
•a citizen or resident of the United States;
•an entity classified as a corporation or partnership, created or organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any
political subdivision of the United States, including any state;
•an estate, the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source; or
•a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or more
U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, has the authority to control all of the trust’s substantial
decisions.
So long as we qualify for taxation as a REIT, distributions on shares of our stock made out of the current or accumulated earnings
and profits allocable to these distributions (and not designated as capital gain dividends) will be taxable as dividends for U.S.
federal income tax purposes. None of these distributions will be eligible for the dividends received deduction for U.S. corporate
stockholders.
Generally, the current maximum marginal rate of tax payable by individuals on dividends received from corporations that are
subject to a corporate level of tax is 20%. Except in limited circumstances, this tax rate will not apply to dividends paid to you by
us on our shares, because generally we are not subject to U.S. federal income tax on the portion of our REIT taxable income or
capital gains distributed to our stockholders. The reduced maximum U.S. federal income tax rate will apply to that portion, if any,
of dividends received by you with respect to our shares that are attributable to: (1) dividends received by us from non-REIT
corporations or other taxable REIT subsidiaries; (2) income from the prior year with respect to which we were required to pay U.S.
federal corporate income tax during the prior year (if, for example, we did not distribute 100% of our REIT taxable income for the
prior year); or (3) the amount of any earnings and profits distributed by us and accumulated in a non-REIT year.
Although the preferential 20% rate on qualified dividends is generally not applicable to dividends to our shareholders, the
Internal Revenue Code provides for a deduction from income for individuals, trusts and estates for 20% of taxable REIT dividends
not eligible for the preferential rate, excluding capital gain dividends. This deduction is not taken into account for purposes of
determining the 3.8% tax on net investment income (described below) and, unlike the preferential rate, expires after 2025.
Distributions that are designated as capital gain dividends will be taxed as long-term capital gains (to the extent they do not
exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year), without regard to the period for which you held our stock. However, if you
are a corporation, you may be required to treat a portion of some capital gain dividends as ordinary income.
If we elect to retain and pay income tax on any net capital gain and designate such amount in a timely notice to you, you would
include in income, as long-term capital gain, your proportionate share of this net capital gain. You would also receive a refundable
tax credit for your proportionate share of the tax paid by us on such retained capital gains, and you would have an increase in the
basis of your shares of our stock in an amount equal to your includable capital gains less your share of the tax deemed paid.
You may not include in your U.S. federal income tax return any of our net operating losses or capital losses. U.S. federal income
tax rules may also require that certain minimum tax adjustments and preferences be apportioned to you. In addition, any
distribution declared by us in October, November or December of any year on a specified date in any such month shall be treated as
both paid by us and received by you on December 31 of that year, provided that the distribution is actually paid by us no later than
January 31 of the following year.
We will be treated as having sufficient earnings and profits to treat as a dividend any distribution up to the amount required to be
distributed in order to avoid imposition of the 4% excise tax discussed under “General” and “Qualification as a REIT - Annual
Distribution Requirements” above. As a result, you may be required to treat as taxable dividends certain distributions that would
otherwise result in a tax-free return of capital. Moreover, any “deficiency dividend” will be treated as a dividend (an ordinary
dividend or a capital gain dividend, as the case may be), regardless of our earnings and profits. Any other distributions in excess of
current or accumulated earnings and profits will generally not be taxable to you to the extent these distributions do not exceed the
adjusted tax basis of your shares of our stock. You will be required to reduce the tax basis of your shares of our stock by the amount
of these distributions until the basis has been reduced to zero, after which these distributions will be taxable as capital gain, if the
shares of our stock are held as capital assets. The tax basis as so reduced will be used in computing the capital gain or
16
loss, if any, realized upon the sale of the shares of our stock. Any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our stock which were
held for six months or less (after application of certain holding period rules) will generally be treated as a long-term capital loss to
the extent you previously received capital gain distributions with respect to these shares of our stock.
Upon the sale or exchange of any shares of our stock to or with a person other than us or a sale or exchange of all shares of our
stock (whether actually or constructively owned) with us, you will generally recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between
the amount realized on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in these shares of our stock. This gain or loss will be capital
gain or loss if you held these shares of our stock as a capital asset.
If we redeem any of your shares in us, the treatment can only be determined on the basis of particular facts at the time of
redemption. In general, you will recognize gain or loss (as opposed to dividend income) equal to the difference between the amount
received by you in the redemption and your adjusted tax basis in your shares redeemed if such redemption: (1) results in a
“complete termination” of your interest in all classes of our equity securities; (2) is a “substantially disproportionate redemption”;
or (3) is “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” with respect to you. In applying these tests, you must take into account your
ownership of all classes of our equity securities (e.g., common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants). You also
must take into account any equity securities that are considered to be constructively owned by you.
If, as a result of a redemption by us of your shares, you no longer own (either actually or constructively) any of our equity
securities or only own (actually and constructively) an insubstantial percentage of our equity securities, then it is probable that the
redemption of your shares would be considered “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” and, thus, would result in gain or loss to
you. However, whether a distribution is “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” depends on all of the facts and circumstances,
and if you rely on any of these tests at the time of redemption, you should consult your tax advisor to determine their application to
the particular situation.
Generally, if the redemption does not meet the tests described above, then the proceeds received by you from the redemption of
your shares will be treated as a distribution taxable as a dividend to the extent of the allocable portion of current or accumulated
earnings and profits. If the redemption is taxed as a dividend, your adjusted tax basis in the redeemed shares will be transferred to
any other shareholdings in us that you own. If you own no other shareholdings in us, under certain circumstances, such basis may
be transferred to a related person, or it may be lost entirely.
Gain from the sale or exchange of our shares held for more than one year is generally taxed at a maximum long-term capital gain
rate of 20% in the case of stockholders who are individuals and 21% in the case of stockholders that are corporations. Pursuant to
Internal Revenue Service guidance, we may classify portions of our capital gain dividends as eligible for specific treatment
provided under the Internal Revenue Code, which, depending on the nature of the capital gains, may result in taxation of such
portions at rates of either 20% or 25%. Capital losses recognized by a stockholder upon the disposition of our shares held for more
than one year at the time of disposition will be considered long-term capital losses. The deduction for capital losses is subject to
limitations.
An additional tax of 3.8% generally will be imposed on the “net investment income” of U.S. stockholders who meet certain
requirements and are individuals, estates or certain trusts. Among other items, “net investment income” generally includes gross
income from dividends and net gain attributable to the disposition of certain property, such as shares of our common stock or
warrants. In the case of individuals, this tax will only apply to the extent such individual’s modified adjusted gross income exceeds
$200,000 ($250,000 for married couples filing a joint return and surviving spouses, and $125,000 for married individuals filing a
separate return). U.S. stockholders should consult their tax advisors regarding the possible applicability of this additional tax in
their particular circumstances.
Treatment of Tax-Exempt U.S. Stockholders  Tax-exempt entities, including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts
and individual retirement accounts (“Exempt Organizations”), generally are exempt from U.S. federal income taxation. However,
they are subject to taxation on their unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). The Internal Revenue Service has issued a
published revenue ruling that dividend distributions from a REIT to an exempt employee pension trust do not constitute UBTI,
provided that the shares of the REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or business of the exempt employee pension trust.
Based on this ruling, amounts distributed by us to Exempt Organizations generally should not constitute UBTI. However, if an
Exempt Organization finances its acquisition of the shares of our stock with debt, a portion of its income from us will constitute
UBTI pursuant to the “debt financed property” rules. Likewise, a portion of the Exempt Organization’s income from us would
constitute UBTI if we held a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit. A tax-exempt U.S. stockholder that is
subject to tax on its UBTI will be required to segregate its taxable income and loss for each unrelated trade or business activity for
purposes of determining its UBTI.
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting Under certain circumstances, you may be subject to backup withholding at
applicable rates on payments made with respect to, or cash proceeds of a sale or exchange of, shares of our stock. Backup
withholding will apply only if you: (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you are an individual, is
ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of
perjury,
17
that you have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has not notified you that you
are subject to backup withholding.
Backup withholding will not apply with respect to payments made to certain exempt recipients, such as corporations and tax-
exempt organizations. You should consult with a tax advisor regarding qualification for exemption from backup withholding, and
the procedure for obtaining an exemption. Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Rather, the amount of any backup
withholding with respect to a payment to a stockholder will be allowed as a credit against such stockholder’s U.S. federal income
tax liability and may entitle such stockholder to a refund, provided that the required information is provided to the Internal Revenue
Service.
Taxation of Foreign Stockholders  The following summary applies to you only if you are a foreign person. A “foreign person” is a
holder of shares of stock who, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, is not a U.S. stockholder. The U.S. federal taxation of foreign
persons is a highly complex matter that may be affected by many considerations.
Except as discussed below, distributions to you of cash generated by our real estate operations in the form of ordinary dividends,
but not by the sale or exchange of our capital assets, generally will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of 30%, unless an
applicable tax treaty reduces that tax and you file with us the required form evidencing the lower rate.
In general, you will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on a graduated rate basis rather than withholding with respect to your
investment in our stock if such investment is “effectively connected” with your conduct of a trade or business in the United States.
A corporate foreign stockholder that receives income that is, or is treated as, effectively connected with a United States trade or
business may also be subject to the branch profits tax, which is payable in addition to regular United States corporate income tax.
The following discussion will apply to foreign stockholders whose investment in us is not so effectively connected. We expect to
withhold United States income tax, as described below, on the gross amount of any distributions paid to you unless (1) you file an
Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI with us claiming that the distribution is “effectively connected” or (2) certain other
exceptions apply.
Distributions by us that are attributable to gain from the sale or exchange of a United States real property interest will be taxed to
you under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 (“FIRPTA”) as if these distributions were gains “effectively
connected” with a United States trade or business. Accordingly, you will be taxed at the normal capital gain rates applicable to a
U.S. stockholder on these amounts, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the
case of nonresident alien individuals. Distributions subject to FIRPTA may also be subject to a branch profits tax in the hands of a
corporate foreign stockholder that is not entitled to treaty exemption. We will be required to withhold tax at a rate of 21% from
distributions subject to FIRPTA. We will be required to withhold from distributions subject to FIRPTA, and remit to the Internal
Revenue Service, 21% of designated capital gain dividends, or, if greater, 21% of the amount of any distributions that could be
designated as capital gain dividends. In addition, if we designate prior distributions as capital gain dividends, subsequent
distributions, up to the amount of the prior distributions not withheld against, will be treated as capital gain dividends for purposes
of withholding.
Any capital gain dividend with respect to any class of stock that is “regularly traded” on an established securities market will be
treated as an ordinary dividend if the foreign stockholder did not own more than 10% of such class of stock at any time during the
taxable year. Foreign stockholders generally will not be required to report distributions received from us on U.S. federal income tax
returns and all distributions received by such stockholders treated as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes (including any
such capital gain dividends) will be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax (unless reduced under an applicable income tax treaty)
as discussed above. In addition, the branch profits tax will not apply to such distributions.
Unless our shares constitute a “United States real property interest” within the meaning of FIRPTA or are effectively connected
with a U.S. trade or business, a sale of our shares by you generally will not be subject to United States taxation. Even if our shares
were to constitute a “United States real property interest,” non-U.S. stockholders that are “qualified foreign pension funds” (or are
owned by a qualified foreign pension fund) meeting certain requirements may be exempt from FIRPTA withholding on the sale or
disposition of our shares. Our shares will not constitute a United States real property interest if we qualify as a “domestically
controlled REIT.” We believe that we qualify as and expect to continue to qualify as a domestically controlled REIT. A
domestically controlled REIT is a REIT in which at all times during a specified testing period less than 50% in value of its shares is
held directly or indirectly by foreign stockholders. Generally, we are permitted to assume that holders of less than 5% of our shares
at all times during a specified testing period are U.S. persons. However, if you are a nonresident alien individual who is present in
the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year and certain other conditions apply, you will be subject to a 30% tax
on such capital gains. In any event, a purchaser of our shares from you will not be required under FIRPTA to withhold on the
purchase price if the purchased shares are “regularly traded” on an established securities market or if we are a domestically
controlled REIT. Otherwise, under FIRPTA, the purchaser may be required to withhold 15% of the purchase price and remit such
amount to the Internal Revenue Service.
18
Backup withholding tax and information reporting will generally not apply to distributions paid to you outside the United States
that are treated as: (1) dividends to which the 30% or lower treaty rate withholding tax discussed above applies; (2) capital gains
dividends; or (3) distributions attributable to gain from the sale or exchange by us of U.S. real property interests. Payment of the
proceeds of a sale of stock within the United States or conducted through certain U.S. related financial intermediaries is subject to
both backup withholding and information reporting unless the beneficial owner certifies under penalties of perjury that he or she is
not a U.S. person (and the payor does not have actual knowledge that the beneficial owner is a U.S. person) or otherwise establishes
an exemption. You may obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by filing the appropriate claim
for refund with the Internal Revenue Service.
Withholding tax at a rate of 30% will be imposed on certain payments to you or certain foreign financial institutions (including
investment funds) and other non-US persons receiving payments on your behalf, including distributions in respect of shares of our
stock, if you or such institutions fail to comply with certain due diligence, disclosure and reporting rules, as set forth in Treasury
regulations. Accordingly, the entity through which shares of our stock are held will affect the determination of whether such
withholding is required. Stockholders that are otherwise eligible for an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. withholding taxes
with respect to such dividends will be required to seek a refund from the Internal Revenue Service to obtain the benefit of such
exemption or reduction. Additional requirements and conditions may be imposed pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement, if
and when entered into, between the United States and such institution’s home jurisdiction. We will not pay any additional amounts
to any stockholders in respect of any amounts withheld. You are encouraged to consult with your tax advisor regarding U.S.
withholding taxes and the application of Treasury regulations in light of your particular circumstances.
U.S. Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Depositary Shares
Owners of our depositary shares will be treated as if you were owners of the series of preferred stock represented by the
depositary shares. Thus, you will be required to take into account the income and deductions to which you would be entitled if you
were a holder of the underlying series of preferred stock.
Conversion or Exchange of Shares for Preferred Stock  No gain or loss will be recognized upon the withdrawal of preferred stock
in exchange for depositary shares and the tax basis of each share of preferred stock will, upon exchange, be the same as the
aggregate tax basis of the depositary shares exchanged. If you held your depositary shares as a capital asset at the time of the
exchange for shares of preferred stock, the holding period for your shares of preferred stock will include the period during which
you owned the depositary shares.
U.S. Federal Income and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Debt Securities
The following is a general summary of the U.S. federal income tax consequences and, in the case that you are a holder that is a
non-U.S. holder, as defined below, the U.S. federal estate tax consequences, of purchasing, owning and disposing of debt securities
periodically offered under one or more indentures (the “notes”). This summary assumes that you hold the notes as capital assets.
This summary applies to you only if you are the initial holder of the notes and you acquire the notes for a price equal to the issue
price of the notes. The issue price of the notes is the first price at which a substantial amount of the notes is sold other than to bond
houses, brokers or similar persons or organizations acting in the capacity of underwriters, placement agents or wholesalers. In
addition, this summary does not consider any foreign, state, local or other tax laws that may be applicable to us or a purchaser of
the notes.
U.S. Holders
The following summary applies to you only if you are a U.S. holder, as defined below.
Definition of a U.S. Holder  A “U.S. holder” is a beneficial owner of a note or notes that is for U.S. federal income tax purposes:
•a citizen or resident of the United States;
•a corporation, partnership or other entity classified as a corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or organized in
or under the laws of the United States or of any political subdivision of the United States, including any state;
•an estate, the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source; or
•a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or more
U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, has the authority to control all of the trust’s substantial
decisions.
Payments of Interest  Stated interest on the notes generally will be taxed as ordinary interest income from domestic sources at the
time it is paid or accrues in accordance with your method of accounting for tax purposes.
19
Sale, Exchange or Other Disposition of Notes  The adjusted tax basis in your note will generally be your cost. You generally will
recognize taxable gain or loss when you sell or otherwise dispose of your notes equal to the difference, if any, between:
•the amount realized on the sale or other disposition, less any amount attributable to any accrued interest, which will be
taxable in the manner described under “Payments of Interest” above; and
•your adjusted tax basis in the notes.
Your gain or loss generally will be capital gain or loss. This capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if at the time
of the sale or other disposition you have held the notes for more than one year. Subject to limited exceptions, your capital losses
cannot be used to offset your ordinary income (except in the case of individuals, who may offset up to $3,000 of ordinary income
each year).
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting  In general, “backup withholding” may apply to any payments made to you of
principal and interest on your note, and to the payment of the proceeds of a sale or other disposition of your note before maturity, if
you are a non-corporate U.S. holder and: (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you are an individual,
is ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of
perjury, that you have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has not notified you
that you are subject to backup withholding.
The amount of any reportable payments, including interest, made to you (unless you are an exempt recipient) and the amount of
tax withheld, if any, with respect to such payments will be reported to you and to the Internal Revenue Service for each calendar
year. You should consult your tax advisor regarding your qualification for an exemption from backup withholding and the
procedures for obtaining such an exemption, if applicable. The backup withholding tax is not an additional tax and will be credited
against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided that correct information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service.
Non-U.S. Holders
The following summary applies to you if you are a beneficial owner of a note and are not a U.S. holder, as defined above (a
“non-U.S. holder”).
Special rules may apply to certain non-U.S. holders such as “controlled foreign corporations,” “passive foreign investment
companies” and “foreign personal holding companies.” Such entities are encouraged to consult their tax advisors to determine the
U.S. federal, state, local and other tax consequences that may be relevant to them.
U.S. Federal Withholding Tax  Subject to the discussion below, U.S. federal withholding tax will not apply to payments by us or
our paying agent, in its capacity as such, of principal and interest on your notes under the “portfolio interest” exception of the
Internal Revenue Code, provided that:
•you do not, directly or indirectly, actually or constructively, own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all
classes of our stock entitled to vote;
•you are not (1) a controlled foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is related, directly or indirectly, to
us through sufficient stock ownership, as provided in the Internal Revenue Code, or (2) a bank receiving interest described in
Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code;
•such interest is not effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or business; and
•you provide a signed written statement, under penalties of perjury, which can reliably be related to you, certifying that you
are not a U.S. person within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code and providing your name and address to us or our
paying agent; or
•a securities clearing organization, bank or other financial institution that holds customers’ securities in the ordinary course of
its trade or business and holds your notes on your behalf and that certifies to us or our paying agent under penalties of
perjury that it, or the bank or financial institution between it and you, has received from you your signed, written statement
and provides us or our paying agent with a copy of such statement.
Treasury regulations provide that:
•if you are a foreign partnership, the certification requirement will generally apply to your partners, and you will be required
to provide certain information;
•if you are a foreign trust, the certification requirement will generally be applied to you or your beneficial owners depending
on whether you are a “foreign complex trust,” “foreign simple trust,” or “foreign grantor trust” as defined in the Treasury
regulations; and
•look-through rules will apply for tiered partnerships, foreign simple trusts and foreign grantor trusts.
20
If you are a foreign partnership or a foreign trust, you should consult your own tax advisor regarding your status under these
Treasury regulations and the certification requirements applicable to you.
If you cannot satisfy the portfolio interest requirements described above, payments of interest will be subject to the 30% United
States withholding tax, unless you provide us with a properly executed (1) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming an
exemption from or reduction in withholding under the benefit of an applicable treaty or (2) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI
stating that interest paid on the note is not subject to withholding tax because it is effectively connected with your conduct of a
trade or business in the United States. Alternative documentation may be applicable in certain circumstances.
If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States and interest on a note is effectively connected with the conduct of
that trade or business, you will be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on that interest on a net income basis (although you will
be exempt from the 30% withholding tax provided the certification requirement described above is met) in the same manner as if
you were a U.S. person, except as otherwise provided by an applicable tax treaty. If you are a foreign corporation, you may be
required to pay a branch profits tax on the earnings and profits that are effectively connected to the conduct of your trade or
business in the United States.
Withholding tax at a rate of 30% will be imposed on payments of interest (including original issue discount) to you or certain
foreign financial institutions (including investment funds) and other non-US persons receiving payments on your behalf if you or
such institutions fail to comply with certain due diligence, disclosure and reporting rules, as set forth in Treasury regulations. We
will not pay any additional amounts to any holders of our debt instruments in respect of any amounts withheld. You are encouraged
to consult with your tax advisor regarding U.S. withholding taxes and the application of the relevant Treasury regulations in light of
your particular circumstances.
Sale, Exchange or other Disposition of Notes  You generally will not have to pay U.S. federal income tax on any gain or income
realized from the sale, redemption, retirement at maturity or other disposition of your notes, unless:
•in the case of gain, you are an individual who is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year of
the sale or other disposition of your notes, and specific other conditions are met;
•you are subject to tax provisions applicable to certain United States expatriates; or
•the gain is effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and gain with respect to your notes is effectively connected with
the conduct of that trade or business, you generally will be subject to U.S. income tax on a net basis on the gain. In addition, if you
are a foreign corporation, you may be subject to a branch profits tax on your effectively connected earnings and profits for the
taxable year, as adjusted for certain items.
U.S. Federal Estate Tax.  If you are an individual and are not a U.S. citizen or a resident of the United States, as specially defined
for U.S. federal estate tax purposes, at the time of your death, your notes will generally not be subject to the U.S. federal estate tax,
unless, at the time of your death (1) you owned actually or constructively 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all
our classes of stock entitled to vote, or (2) interest on the notes is effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or
business.
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting  Backup withholding will not apply to payments of principal or interest made by
us or our paying agent, in its capacity as such, to you if you have provided the required certification that you are a non-U.S. holder
as described in “U.S. Federal Withholding Tax” above, and provided that neither we nor our paying agent have actual knowledge
that you are a U.S. holder, as described in “U.S. Holders” above. We or our paying agent may, however, report payments of interest
on the notes.
The gross proceeds from the disposition of your notes may be subject to information reporting and backup withholding tax. If
you sell your notes outside the United States through a non-U.S. office of a non-U.S. broker and the sales proceeds are paid to you
outside the United States, then the U.S. backup withholding and information reporting requirements generally will not apply to that
payment. However, U.S. information reporting, but not backup withholding, will apply to a payment of sales proceeds, even if that
payment is made outside the United States, if you sell your notes through a non-U.S. office of a broker that has certain connections
with the United States.
You should consult your own tax advisor regarding application of backup withholding in your particular circumstance and the
availability of and procedure for obtaining an exemption from backup withholding. Any amounts withheld under the backup
withholding rules from a payment to you will be allowed as a refund or credit against your U.S. federal income tax liability,
provided the required information is furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.
21
U.S. Federal Income of Holders of Our Warrants
Exercise of Warrants  You will not generally recognize gain or loss upon the exercise of a warrant. Your basis in the debt
securities, preferred stock, depositary shares or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the exercise of the warrant will
be equal to the sum of your adjusted tax basis in the warrant and the exercise price paid. Your holding period in the debt securities,
preferred stock, depositary shares or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the exercise of the warrant will not include
the period during which the warrant was held by you.
Expiration of Warrants  Upon the expiration of a warrant, you will generally recognize a capital loss in an amount equal to your
adjusted tax basis in the warrant.
Sale or Exchange of Warrants  Upon the sale or exchange of a warrant to a person other than us, you will recognize gain or loss
in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in the
warrant. Such gain or loss will generally be capital gain or loss and will be long-term capital gain or loss if the warrant was held for
more than one year. Upon the sale of the warrant to us, the Internal Revenue Service may argue that you should recognize ordinary
income on the sale. You are advised to consult your own tax advisors as to the consequences of a sale of a warrant to us.
Potential Legislation or Other Actions Affecting Tax Consequences
Current and prospective securities holders should recognize that the present U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment
in us may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time and that any such action may affect investments
and commitments previously made. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons
involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of the Treasury, resulting in revisions of
regulations and revised interpretations of established concepts as well as statutory changes. Revisions in U.S. federal tax laws and
interpretations of these laws could adversely affect the tax consequences of an investment in us.
State, Local and Foreign Taxes
We, and holders of our debt and equity securities, may be subject to state, local or foreign taxation in various jurisdictions,
including those in which we or they transact business, own property or reside. It should be noted that we own properties located in
a number of state, local and foreign jurisdictions, and may be required to file tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. The
state, local or foreign tax treatment of us and holders of our debt and equity securities may not conform to the U.S. federal income
tax consequences discussed above. Consequently, you are urged to consult your advisor regarding the application and effect of
state, local and foreign tax laws with respect to any investment in our securities.
Because the U.S. generally maintains a worldwide corporate tax system, the foreign and U.S. tax systems are somewhat
interdependent. Longstanding international tax norms that determine each country’s jurisdiction to tax cross-border international
trade are evolving and could reduce the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to deduct for foreign tax purposes the interest they pay on
loans from the Company, thereby increasing the foreign tax liability of the subsidiaries. It is also possible that foreign countries
could increase their withholding taxes on dividends and interest. Given the unpredictability of these possible changes and their
potential interdependency, it is very difficult to assess the overall effect of such potential tax changes on our earnings and cash flow,
but such changes could adversely impact our financial results.
Internet Access to Our SEC Filings
Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those
reports, as well as our proxy statements and other materials that are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) are made available, free of charge, on the Internet at www.welltower.com/investors, as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We routinely post important information on our website at
www.welltower.com in the “Investors” section, including corporate and investor presentations and financial information. We intend
to use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations
under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on our website under the heading “Investors.” Accordingly, investors
should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press releases, public conference calls, and filings with the
SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is
included as an inactive textual reference only.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that constitute “forward-
looking statements,” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as
“may,” “will,” “intend,” “should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “estimate” or similar expressions that do not relate
solely to historical matters, we are making forward-looking statements. In particular, these forward-looking statements include, but
are not limited to, those relating to our opportunities to acquire, develop or sell properties; our ability to close our anticipated
acquisitions, investments or dispositions on currently anticipated terms, or within currently anticipated timeframes; the expected
22
performance of our operators/tenants and properties; our expected occupancy rates; our ability to declare and to make distributions
to stockholders; our investment and financing opportunities and plans; our continued qualification as a REIT; and our ability to
access capital markets or other sources of funds. 
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our
actual results to differ materially from our expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various
factors, including, but not limited to:
•the status of the economy;
•the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital;
•uncertainty from the expected discontinuance of LIBOR and the transition to any other interest rate benchmark;
•issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies,
responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost-effectively
obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance;
•changes in financing terms;
•competition within the health care and seniors housing industries;
•negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to,
their ability to pay rent and repay loans;
•our ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results;
•the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when anticipated;
•natural disasters and other acts of God affecting our properties;
•our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur;
•our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold;
•operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies;
•the cooperation of joint venture partners;
•government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements;
•liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants;
•unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future investments or acquisitions;
•environmental laws affecting our properties;
•changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting;
•the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates;
•our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT;
•key management personnel recruitment and retention; and
•the risks described under “Item 1A — Risk Factors.”
We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information,
future events, or otherwise.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
This section highlights significant factors, events and uncertainties that could create risk with an investment in our securities. The
events and consequences discussed in these risk factors could, in circumstances we may not be able to accurately predict, recognize
or control, have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, reputation, prospects, financial condition, operating results, cash
flows, liquidity, ability to pay dividends and stock price. These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face: our operations
could also be affected by factors, events or uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to
present significant risks to our operations. We group these risk factors into three categories:
•Risks arising from our business;
•Risks arising from our capital structure; and
•Risks arising from our status as a REIT. 
23
Risks Arising from Our Business
Our investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our
expectations 
We are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We could encounter unanticipated
difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might
require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. If we agree to provide
construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the
project. Such expenditures may negatively affect our results of operations. Investments in and acquisitions of seniors housing and
health care properties entail risks associated with real estate investments generally, including risks that the investment will not
achieve expected returns, that the cost estimates for necessary property improvements will prove inaccurate or that the tenant,
operator or manager will fail to meet performance expectations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our anticipated
acquisitions and investments, the completion of which is subject to various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with
anticipated timing, on anticipated terms, or at all. We may be unable to obtain or assume financing for acquisitions on favorable
terms or at all. Health care properties are often highly customizable and the development or redevelopment of such properties may
require costly tenant-specific improvements. We also may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions,
particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and this could have an adverse effect on our results
of operations and financial condition. Acquired properties may be located in new markets, either within or outside the United
States, where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of
business relationships in the area, costs associated with opening a new regional office and unfamiliarity with local governmental
and permitting procedures. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will achieve the economic benefit we expect from
acquisitions, investment, development and redevelopment opportunities. 
Acquired properties may expose us to unknown liability
We may acquire properties or invest in joint ventures that own properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with
only limited recourse, against the prior owners or other third parties with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability
were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle or contest it,
which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to acquired properties might
include: liabilities for clean up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the
former owners of the properties, liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business and claims for indemnification by general
partners, directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.
Competition for acquisitions may result in increased prices for properties
We may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other well-capitalized investors, including publicly traded and
privately held REITs, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign
wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors. This competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the
following risks: we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate
investors and, even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other real estate investors may significantly
increase the purchase price.
Our investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over these investments, our
partners’ insolvency or failure to meet their obligations, and disputes between us and our partners 
We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities.
Joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our
partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may
result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have economic or other
business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute
with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such dispute and could have an adverse impact
on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent
contrary to our instructions or requests; and that our joint venture partners may be structured differently than us for tax purposes,
which could create conflicts of interest and risks to our REIT status. In some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to
trigger a buy-sell, put right or forced sale arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, acquire our partner’s interest or
sell the underlying asset at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire our
partner’s interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. In such
event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. On the other hand, our
ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted and the market for our interest may be limited
and/or valued lower than fair market value. Joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners,
which could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. Even when we have a controlling interest, certain major
decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property.
24
We are exposed to operational risks with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating properties that could adversely affect our
revenue and operations
We are exposed to various operational risks with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating properties that may increase our costs
or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. These risks include fluctuations in occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid
reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated
licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and
professional liability insurance coverage; state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and the availability and
increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). Any one or a combination of these factors may adversely
affect our revenue and operations.
We assume operational and legal risks with respect to our properties managed in RIDEA structures that could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition
We have entered into various joint ventures that were structured under the provisions of the REIT Investment Diversification and
Empowerment Act of 2007 (“RIDEA”), which permits REITs to own or partially own “qualified health care properties” in a
structure through which we can participate directly in the cash flow of the properties’ operations (as compared to receiving only
contractual rent payments) in compliance with REIT requirements. A “qualified health care property” includes real property and
any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility,
congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary
services to patients.
Under a RIDEA structure, we are required to rely on our operator to manage and operate the property, including complying with
laws and providing resident care. However, as the owner of the property under a RIDEA structure, we are responsible for
operational and legal risks and liabilities of the property, including, but not limited to, those relating to employment matters of our
operators, compliance with health care fraud and abuse and other laws, governmental reimbursement matters, compliance with
federal, state, local and industry-related licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards, and litigation
involving our properties or residents/patients, even though we have limited ability to control or influence our operators’
management of these risks. Further, our taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”) is generally required to hold the applicable health care
license and enroll in the applicable government health care programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), which subjects us to potential
liability under various health care regulatory laws. Penalties for failure to comply with applicable laws may include loss or
suspension of licenses and certificates of need, certification or accreditation, exclusion from government health care programs (e.g.,
Medicare and Medicaid), administrative sanctions and civil monetary penalties. Although we have some general oversight approval
rights and the right to review operational and financial reporting information, our operators are ultimately in control of the day-to-
day business of the property, including clinical decision-making, we rely on them to operate the properties in compliance with a
manner that complies with applicable law.
Decreases in our operators’ revenues or increases in our operators’ expenses could affect our operators’ ability to make
payments to us
We have very limited control over the success or failure of our operators' businesses and, at any time, an operator may experience
a downturn in its business that weakens its financial condition. Our operators’ revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, private
pay rates, and Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable. Expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs
of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. Revenues from government reimbursement have, and may
continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. Operating costs continue to increase for our
operators. To the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating
enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. To
the extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need to record an impairment for such asset. Furthermore, if we determine
to dispose of an underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. Any such impairment or loss on sale would negatively
affect our financial results. These risks are magnified where we lease multiple properties to a single operator under a master lease,
as an operator failure or default under a master lease would expose us to these risks across multiple properties. Although our lease
agreements give us the right to exercise certain remedies in the event of default on the obligations owing to us, we may determine
not to do so if we believe that enforcement of our rights would be more detrimental to our business than seeking alternative
approaches.
Increased competition and oversupply may affect our operators’ ability to meet their obligations to us 
The operators of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties and other health care providers
that provide comparable services for residents and patients, including on the basis of the scope and quality of care and services
provided, reputation and financial condition, physical appearance of the properties, price, and location. Our operators are expected
to encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses. In
addition, we expect that there will continue to be a more than adequate inventory of seniors housing facilities. We cannot be certain
that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to
25
meet all of their obligations to us. If our operators cannot compete effectively or if there is an oversupply of facilities, their
financial performance and ability to meet their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 
A severe cold and flu season, epidemics or any other widespread illnesses could adversely affect the occupancy of our Seniors
Housing Operating and Triple-net properties
Our revenues and our operators’ revenues are dependent on occupancy. It is impossible to predict the severity of the cold and flu
season or the occurrence of epidemics or any other widespread illnesses. The occupancy of our Seniors Housing Operating and
Triple-net properties could significantly decrease in the event of a severe cold and flu season, an epidemic or any other widespread
illness. Such a decrease could affect the operating income of our Seniors Housing Operating properties and the ability of our Triple-
net operators to make payments to us. In addition, a flu pandemic could significantly increase the cost burdens faced by our
operators, including if they are required to implement quarantines for residents, and adversely affect their ability to meet their
obligations to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 
The insolvency or bankruptcy of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors may adversely affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition 
We are exposed to the risk that our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers or other obligors may not be able to meet the rent,
principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor
bankruptcy or insolvency, or that a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or
insolvency proceedings for other reasons. Although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant,
demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding
obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies,
the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. A tenant,
operator, borrower, manager or other obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our
ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise
other rights and remedies. In addition, if a lease is rejected in a tenant bankruptcy, our claim against the tenant may be limited by
applicable provisions of the bankruptcy law. We may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance)
to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new
tenant. In some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. In some of those
situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. If we cannot transition a
leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities.
Publicity about the operator's financial condition and insolvency proceedings may also negatively impact their and our reputations,
decreasing customer demand and revenues. Should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely
affected. 
We may not be able to timely reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us 
From time to time, we will have cash available from the proceeds of sales of our securities, principal payments on our loans
receivable or the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support
arrangements. In order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to reinvest these proceeds
in a timely manner. We compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors, including other health care
REITs, real estate partnerships, health care providers, health care lenders and other investors, including developers, banks,
insurance companies, pension funds, government-sponsored entities and private equity firms, some of whom may have greater
financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do. This competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our
ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. 
The properties managed by Sunrise Senior Living, LLC (“Sunrise”) account for a significant portion of our revenues and net
operating income and any adverse developments in its business or financial condition could adversely affect us 
As of December 31, 2019, Sunrise managed 165 of our Seniors Housing Operating properties. These properties account for a
significant portion of our revenues and net operating income. Although we have various rights as the property owner under our
management agreements, we rely on Sunrise’s personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, proprietary
information, good faith and judgment to manage our Seniors Housing Operating properties efficiently and effectively. We also rely
on Sunrise to set appropriate resident fees, to provide accurate property-level financial results for our properties in a timely manner
and to otherwise operate them in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and
regulations. Any adverse developments in Sunrise’s business or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our properties
efficiently and effectively, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For example,
we depend on Sunrise’s ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations
of our Seniors Housing Operating properties. A shortage of nurses or other trained personnel or general inflationary pressures may
force Sunrise to enhance its pay and benefits packages to compete effectively for such personnel, but it may not be able to offset
these added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents. Any increase in labor costs and other property operating expenses,
any failure by Sunrise to attract and retain qualified personnel, or significant changes in Sunrise’s senior management or equity
ownership could adversely affect the income we receive from our Seniors Housing Operating properties and have a material
adverse effect on us. Also, if Sunrise experiences any significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties, such
difficulties
26
could result in, among other things, acceleration of its indebtedness, impairment of its continued access to capital or the
commencement of insolvency proceedings by or against it under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which, in turn, could adversely affect
our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we determine to sell or transition additional properties currently
managed by Sunrise, we may experience operational challenges and/or significantly declining financial performance for those
properties. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. 
We depend on ProMedica Health System ("ProMedica") and Genesis HealthCare (“Genesis”) for a significant portion of our
revenues and any failure, inability or unwillingness by them to satisfy obligations under their agreements with us could
adversely affect us 
The properties we lease to ProMedica and Genesis account for a significant portion of our revenues, and because these leases are
triple-net leases, we also depend on ProMedica and Genesis to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair
expenses in connection with the leased properties. We cannot assure you that ProMedica and Genesis will have sufficient assets,
income and access to financing to enable them to make rental payments to us or to otherwise satisfy their respective obligations
under our leases, and any failure, inability or unwillingness by ProMedica and Genesis to do so could have an adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition. ProMedica and Genesis have also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us
harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses, and we
cannot assure you that ProMedica and Genesis will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to
enable them to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations. ProMedica and Genesis's failure to effectively conduct their
operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect their business reputations and their ability to attract and
retain patients and residents in our properties, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial
condition. Additionally, we have made real estate and other loans to Genesis and their operational or other failures could adversely
impact their ability to repay these loans when due.
Ownership of property outside the U.S. may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our domestic
operations 
We have operations in the U.K. and Canada which represent 8.8% and 9.1% of total Welltower revenues, respectively. As of
December 31, 2019, Revera managed 94 of our Seniors Housing Operating properties in Canada, representing a significant portion
of our revenues, and also owned a controlling interest in Sunrise. International development, ownership, and operating activities
involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. These risks include, but
are not limited to, any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates, which may not qualify
under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test required for us to satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain
our status as a REIT; challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; impact from international trade
disputes and the associated impact on our tenants' supply chain and consumer spending levels; changes in foreign political,
regulatory, and economic conditions (regionally, nationally and locally) including, but not limited to, continuing uncertainty
surrounding the process of Brexit and the macroeconomic and regulatory effects of Brexit, including impacts on the U.K. real estate
market; challenges in managing international operations; challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and
regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment and other civil and
criminal legal proceedings; foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in foreign countries; local businesses and
cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; differences in lending practices and the willingness of domestic
or foreign lenders to provide financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and political and economic instability; and
failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the U.S. that affect foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the
U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with international expansion and
operations, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 
The business and financial results of our operations located in the U.K. may be negatively impacted as a result of Brexit
The U.K.’s referendum on withdrawal from the EU in 2016 (commonly referred to as “Brexit”), and subsequent notification of
the U.K.’s intention to withdraw from the EU given in March 2017, have adversely impacted global markets and foreign currencies.
The terms governing the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU, as well as the legal and economic consequences of those
terms, remain unclear, including with respect to the post-Brexit regulatory environment in the U.K. It is possible that the level of
health care and other economic activity in the U.K. and the rest of Europe will be adversely impacted and that we will face
increased regulatory and legal complexities in these regions which could have an adverse impact on the financial condition and
results of operations of our properties in the U.K.
Moreover, the value of the British Pound Sterling incurred significant fluctuations. If the value of the British Pound Sterling
continues to incur similar fluctuations, unfavorable exchange rate changes may negatively affect the value of our operations located
in the U.K., as translated to our reporting currency, the U.S. Dollar, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which may impact the revenue
and earnings we report. Continued fluctuations in the British Pound Sterling may also result in the imposition of price adjustments
by E.U.-based suppliers to our U.K. operations, as those suppliers seek to compensate for the changes in value of the British Pound
Sterling as compared to the European Euro.
27
If our tenants do not renew their existing leases, or if we are required to sell properties for liquidity reasons, we may be unable
to lease or sell the properties on favorable terms, or at all
We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times. If
these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties, or sell them. There can be no
assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable
to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. Our competitors may offer space at rental rates
below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we
may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge to retain customers when leases expire. In addition, our
ability to reposition our properties with a suitable replacement tenant or operator could be significantly delayed or limited by state
licensing, receivership, CON or other laws, as well as by the Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules, and we could
incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings. Even if
tenants decide to renew or lease new space, the terms of renewals or new leases, including the cost of required renovations or
concessions to tenants, may be less favorable to us than current lease terms.
Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and most of the property we own is highly customized for specific uses. Our ability
to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in operator, economic and other conditions will be limited.
No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell. Our inability to respond
rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In
addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and
health care industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell
properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. 
Our tenants, operators and managers may not have the necessary insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses 
We maintain or require our tenants, operators and managers to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties and
their operations with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are customary for similarly situated companies in our
industry and we frequently review our insurance programs and requirements. Our tenants, operators and manager may not be able
to maintain adequate levels of insurance and required coverages. Also, we may not be able to require the same levels of insurance
coverage under our lease, management and other agreements, which could adversely affect us in the event of a significant
uninsured loss. We cannot make any guarantee as to the future financial viability of the insurers that underwrite our policies and the
policies maintained by our tenants, operators and managers. Insurance may not be available at a reasonable cost in the future or
policies may not be maintained at a level that will fully cover all losses on our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic
event. This may be especially the case due to increases in property insurance costs. In addition, in recent years, long-term/post-
acute care and seniors housing operators and managers have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of
patient care liability claims. As a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. General and
professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the tenants’, operators’ and
managers’ future operations, cash flows and financial conditions, and may have a material adverse effect on the tenants’, operators’
and managers’ ability to meet their obligations to us.
Our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the
ground leases 
We have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is
located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. Many of these
ground leases impose significant limitations on our uses of the subject properties, restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer our
interests in the properties or restrict the leasing of the properties. These restrictions may limit our ability to timely sell or exchange
the properties, impair the properties’ value or negatively impact our ability to find suitable tenants for the properties. As the lessee
under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier
breach of the ground lease by us.
The requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid or government
funding, could have a material adverse effect on our obligors’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which
could adversely affect our obligors’ ability to meet their obligations to us 
Some of our obligors’ businesses are affected by government reimbursement. To the extent that an operator/tenant receives a
significant portion of its revenues from government payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such revenues may be subject to
statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions,
administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding
restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities), any lapse in Congressional funding of the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such
property. In recent years, government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures.
Federal and state authorities may continue seeking to implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies that may
negatively impact health care property operations. See “Item 1 - Business - Certain Government Regulations - United States -
Reimbursement”
28
above for additional information. Health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state
authorities. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the
financial condition of our obligors and properties. There can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available
for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid or private
payors. Significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse
effect on an obligor’s liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor
to meet its obligations to us. 
Since January 1, 2014, the Health Reform Laws have provided those states that expand their Medicaid coverage to otherwise
eligible state residents with incomes at or below 138% of the federal poverty level with an increased federal medical assistance
percentage, effective January 1, 2014, when certain conditions are met. Given that the federal government substantially funds the
Medicaid expansion, it is unclear how many states will ultimately pursue this option, although, as of early January 2020, more than
70% of the states have expanded Medicaid coverage. The participation by states in the Medicaid expansion could have the dual
effect of increasing our tenants’ revenues, through new patients, but further straining state budgets and their ability to pay our
tenants.
The status of the Health Reform Laws may be subject to change as a result of political, legislative, regulatory, and administrative
developments and judicial proceedings. The current Presidential Administration and U.S. Congress have sought to and may
continue to seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the Health Reform Laws, including
Medicaid expansion. Since taking office, President Trump has continued to support the repeal of all or portions of the Health
Reform Laws.  See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States — Reimbursement” above for
additional information. If the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators and tenants are materially adversely
impacted by the Health Reform Laws or future legislation, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected as well. More
generally, and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health care products and services,
and in light of existing federal deficit and budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching
legislative or regulatory changes could have on the U.S. economy, our business, or that of our operators and tenants. 
If controls imposed on certain of our tenants who provide health care services that are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and
other third-party payors to reduce admissions and length of stay affect inpatient volumes at our health care facilities, the
financial condition or results of operations of those tenants could be adversely affected
Controls imposed by Medicare, Medicaid and commercial third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay,
commonly referred to as “utilization reviews,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect certain of our health care
facilities, specifically our acute care hospitals and post-acute facilities. Utilization review entails the review of the admission and
course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue
to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressures to maximize
outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls
and reductions are expected to continue, which could negatively impact the financial condition of our tenants who provide health
care services in our hospitals and post-acute facilities. If so, this could adversely affect these tenants’ ability and willingness to
comply with the terms of their leases with us and/or renew those leases upon expiration, which could have a material adverse effect
on us.
Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with federal, state, province, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification
and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely affect such operators’ or tenants’ operations, which could
adversely affect our operators’ and tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us 
Our operators and tenants generally are subject to or impacted by varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated
licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards. These laws and regulations include, among others: laws
protecting consumers against deceptive practices; laws relating to the operation of our properties and how our tenants and operators
conduct their business, such as fire, health and safety, data security and privacy laws; federal and state laws affecting hospitals,
clinics and other health care communities that participate in both Medicare and Medicaid that specify reimbursement rates, pricing,
reimbursement procedures and limitations, quality of services and care, background checks, food service and physical plants, and
similar foreign laws regulating the health care industry; resident rights laws (including abuse and neglect laws) and fraud laws;
anti-kickback and physician referral laws; the ADA and similar state and local laws; and safety and health standards set by the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration or similar foreign agencies. Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with any of
these laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension,
decertification or exclusion from federal and state health care programs, civil liability, and in certain limited instances, criminal
penalties, loss of license, closure of the facility and/or the incurrence of considerable costs arising from an investigation or
regulatory action. Such actions may have an effect on our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore,
adversely impact us. In addition, we may be directly subject to certain health care fraud and abuse laws and data privacy laws, as
well as potential investigation or enforcement, as a result of our RIDEA-structured arrangements, and certain other arrangements
we may pursue with healthcare entities who are directly subject to these laws. See “Item 1 - Business - Certain Government
Regulations
29
- United States - Fraud & Abuse Enforcement” and “Item 1 - Business - Certain Government Regulations - United States - Health
Care Matters - Generally” above.
Many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or CON to operate. Failure to obtain a license, registration, or
CON, or loss of a required license, registration, or CON would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the
operators or tenants. These events could materially adversely affect our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make rent or other
obligatory payments to us. State and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or
acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a CON or other similar
approval from a state agency. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States — Licensing and
Certification” above. 
In addition, we cannot assure you that future changes in government regulation will not adversely affect the health care industry,
including our tenants and operators, nor can we be certain that our tenants and operators will achieve and maintain occupancy and
rate levels or labor cost levels that will enable them to satisfy their obligations to us.
Changes in applicable tax regulations could negatively affect our financial results 
We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Because the U.S. maintains a worldwide corporate tax
system, the foreign and U.S. tax systems are somewhat interdependent. Longstanding international norms that determine each
country’s jurisdiction to tax cross-border international trade are evolving and could reduce the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to
deduct for foreign tax purposes the interest they pay on loans from us, thereby increasing the foreign tax liability of the
subsidiaries; it is also possible that foreign countries could increase their withholding taxes on dividends and interest. Given the
unpredictability of these possible changes and their potential interdependency, it is very difficult to assess the overall effect of such
potential tax changes on our earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact our financial results.
Unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition
From time to time, we are directly involved in legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. We also are named as defendants in
lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which such operators/tenants or
managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising
in connection with their respective businesses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable
settlement of, pending or future litigation. In addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or
environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. An unfavorable resolution of
pending or future litigation or legal proceedings may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition. Regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses, significantly divert the
attention of management, and could damage our reputation and our brand. In addition, any such resolution could involve our
agreement to terms that restrict the operation of our business. We cannot guarantee losses incurred in connection with any current
or future legal or regulatory proceedings or actions will not exceed any provisions we may have set aside in respect of such
proceedings or actions or will not exceed any available insurance coverage.
Development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability
In connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain,
or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and
authorizations. These factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. In addition, we may not be able
to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be
able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or
construction costs. Additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that
we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. Because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if
the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such
distributions. We may be unable to obtain financing with favorable terms, or at all, for the proposed development, which may cause
us to delay or abandon an opportunity. Newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect,
which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. 
In deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance
of that property. In particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy, rental rates and capital costs.
If our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate as a result of increases in capital costs or other factors, the
property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. Our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping
an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. Additionally, we
may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the
operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. 
30
New facilities that we construct often require a CON and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended
use. The operator also may need to obtain Medicare and Medicaid certification and enter into Medicare and Medicaid provider
agreements and/or third-party payor contracts. In the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary CON, licensure,
certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn
any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and the
necessary provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the
facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. 
We may experience losses caused by severe weather conditions, natural disasters or the physical effects of climate change,
which could result in an increase of our or our tenants’ cost of insurance, unanticipated costs associated with evacuation, a
decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property 
We maintain or require our tenants to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions,
limits and deductibles that we believe are appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage, and we frequently review
our insurance programs and requirements. However, a large number of our properties are located in areas particularly susceptible to
revenue loss, cost increase or damage caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes,
tornadoes and floods, as well as the effects of climate change. We believe, given current industry practice and analysis prepared by
outside consultants, that our and our tenants’ insurance coverage is appropriate to cover reasonably anticipated losses that may be
caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods and other severe weather conditions and natural disasters, including the effects
of climate change. Nevertheless, we are always subject to the risk that such insurance will not fully cover all losses and, depending
on the severity of the event and the impact on our properties, such insurance may not cover a significant portion of the losses
including but not limited to the costs associated with evacuation. These losses may lead to an increase of our and our tenants’ cost
of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues from an affected property and a loss of all or a portion of the capital we have
invested in an affected property.  In addition, we or our tenants may not purchase insurance under certain circumstances if the cost
of insurance exceeds, in our or our tenants’ judgment, the value of the coverage relative to the risk of loss. Also, changes in federal
and state legislation and regulation relating to climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy
efficiency and resiliency of our existing properties and could also necessitate us to spend more on our new development properties
without a corresponding increase in revenue.
To the extent that significant changes in the climate occur in areas where our communities are located, we may experience
extreme weather and changes in precipitation and temperature, all of which may result in physical damage to or a decrease in
demand for properties located in these areas or affected by these conditions. Should the impact of climate change be material in
nature, including significant property damage to or destruction of our communities, or occur for lengthy periods of time, our
financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, changes in federal, state and local legislation and
regulation based on concerns about climate change could result in increased capital expenditures on our existing properties and our
new development properties without a corresponding increase in revenue, resulting in adverse impacts to our net income.
We may incur costs to remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an adverse effect on our or
our obligors’ business or financial condition
Under various laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous
substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental
contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or
operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. We may become liable to reimburse the government for
damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the
person’s relationship to the property. Our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property.
Moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them.
Those assessments are designed to meet the “all appropriate inquiry” standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent
purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. Based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are
subject to material environmental contamination. However, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may
incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the
business or financial condition of our obligors. 
Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information
Our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our
confidential data through phishing or other malicious activity, attempts to interrupt our access to or use of IT systems through
distributed denial-of-service or ransomware attacks, breaches related to our increased receipt and use of data from multiple sources,
and other electronic security breaches or other cybersecurity incidents, including those resulting from human error, product defects
and technology failures. Such cyber-attacks can range from individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information
technology systems to more sophisticated security threats, and may be specifically targeted to our business or more general industry
wide risks. Our information technology networks and related systems are essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations
of our business. While we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, there is no guarantee such
31
efforts will be successful in preventing a cyber-attack. Even the most well-protected information, networks, systems and facilities
remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted cybersecurity breaches evolve and generally are not
recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected.
Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate cybersecurity barriers or other preventative
measures, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. In the past, we have experienced cybersecurity breaches,
which to date have not had a material impact on our operations; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be
material in the future. We must continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data
from misappropriation or corruption. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business, damage our reputation, cause us to incur
significant remediation expense and have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. Cybersecurity breaches that compromise proprietary, personal identifying or confidential information of our employees,
operators, tenants and partners could result in legal claims or proceedings, including under data privacy regulations.
Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed 
Our success depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including our executive officers and other highly
qualified employees, and competition for their talents is intense. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel. We cannot
assure you that we will retain our key personnel or that we will be able to recruit and retain other highly qualified employees in the
future. Losing any key personnel could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and
results of operations. 
Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure 
Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions 
Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on share ownership and transfer and
super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a
third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent Board of Directors. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or
discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. 
We may become more leveraged 
Permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of debt and equity
securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. The incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become
more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make
us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, (4) negatively affect our credit
ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating agencies or (5) make us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates because of the
variable interest rates on some of our borrowings to the extent we have not entirely hedged such variable rate debt. 
Cash available for distributions to stockholders may be insufficient to make dividend contributions at expected levels and are
made at the discretion of the Board of Directors 
If cash available for distribution generated by our assets decreases due to dispositions or otherwise, we may be unable to make
dividend distributions at expected levels. Our inability to make expected distributions would likely result in a decrease in the
market price of our common stock. All distributions are made at the discretion of our Board of Directors in accordance with
Delaware law and depend on our earnings, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectation of our
future capital requirements and operating performance, restrictive covenants in our financial and other contractual arrangements,
maintenance of our REIT qualification, restrictions under Delaware law and other factors as our Board of Directors may deem
relevant from time to time. Additionally, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described
herein, or other significant adverse events, occur. 
We are subject to covenants in our debt agreements that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things, these provisions require
us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create
liens and make investments or acquisitions. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing
the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. These defaults could
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
Limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future investments or to meet our
obligations and commitments
We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and
commitments as they mature. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control,
including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions; the market’s perception of our growth potential and
our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our common stock and the credit
32
ratings of our debt securities; changes in the credit ratings on U.S. government debt securities; uncertainty from the expected
discontinuance of LIBOR and the transition to any other interest rate benchmark; and default or delay in payment by the U.S. of its
obligations. We also rely on the financial institutions that are parties to our revolving credit facilities. If these institutions become
capital constrained, tighten their lending standards or become insolvent or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing
requests from other borrowers within a short period of time, they may be unable or unwilling to honor their funding commitments
to us, which would adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facilities and, over time, could negatively impact our
ability to consummate acquisitions, repay indebtedness as it matures, fund capital expenditures or make distributions to our
stockholders. If our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could negatively impact our ability to acquire
properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund operations or make distributions to our stockholders.
Changes affecting the availability of the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) may have consequences for us that
cannot yet reasonably be predicted
We have outstanding debt, hedge agreements and receivable transactions with variable interest rates based on LIBOR. The
LIBOR benchmark has been subject of national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. In July
2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced that it intends to phase out LIBOR by the end of
2021. These reforms may cause LIBOR to perform differently than in the past and LIBOR may ultimately cease to exist after 2021.
While it is not currently possible to determine precisely whether, or to what extent, the withdrawal and replacement of LIBOR
would affect us, the implementation of alternative benchmark rates to LIBOR may have an adverse effect on our business, results
of operations or financial condition. Any new benchmark rate will likely not replicate LIBOR exactly, which could impact contracts
that terminate after 2021. There is uncertainty about how applicable law, the courts or we will address the replacement of LIBOR
with alternative rates on agreements that do not include alternative rate fallback provisions. In addition, any changes to benchmark
rates may have an uncertain impact on our cost of funds and our access to the capital markets, which could impact our results of
operations and cash flows. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes may also adversely affect the trading market for
our securities. Additional financing, therefore, may be unavailable, more expensive or restricted by the terms of our outstanding
indebtedness.
Downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our cost and availability of capital
We plan to manage the company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance
that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating
agencies could have a material adverse effect on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations, liquidity, cash flows, the trading/redemption price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our
debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our equity holders.
Increases in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our cost of capital
An increase in interest rates may increase interest cost on new and existing variable rate debt.  Such increases in the cost of
capital could adversely impact our ability to finance operations, acquire and develop properties, and refinance existing
debt. Additionally, increased interest rates may also result in less liquid property markets, limiting our ability to sell existing assets.
Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position
Currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position, including exchange rate
fluctuations resulting from Brexit. We generate a portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the Canadian
dollar and the British pound sterling. Although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or
obtain local currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, we cannot
assure you that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on us.
Our entry into hedge agreements may not effectively reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency
exchange rates 
We enter into hedge agreements from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate and foreign currency
exchange rate volatility. These agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations
under these arrangements, that the amount of income we earn from hedging transactions may be limited by federal tax provisions
governing REITs, and that these arrangements may cause us to pay higher interest rates on our debt obligations than otherwise
would be the case. In addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates or
foreign currency exchange rates. When we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will not complete the
long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to hedge. If such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely
affected. 
33
Risks Arising from Our Status as a REIT 
We might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT 
We intend to operate as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and believe we have
operated and will continue to operate in such a manner. If we lose our status as a REIT, we will face serious income tax
consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders
because:
•we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject
to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates;
•we would be subject to increased state and local taxes; and
•unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four
taxable    years following the year during which we were disqualified. 
Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them,
and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of U.S. federal and other income taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings
would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. If we do not qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make
distributions to stockholders, since a non-REIT is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain REIT status or
avoid an excise tax. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all distributions to stockholders will continue to be treated as
dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the
dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term
capital gains with respect to distributions. 
As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy
and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and
complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various
factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Although we
believe that we qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax
purposes. 
Certain subsidiaries might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT
We own interests in a number of entities which have elected to be taxed as REITs for U.S. federal income tax purposes, some of
which we consolidate for financial reporting purposes but each of which is treated as a separate REIT for federal income tax
purposes (each a “Subsidiary REIT”). To qualify as a REIT, each Subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT
qualification requirements under the Code, together with all other rules applicable to REITs. Provided that each Subsidiary REIT
qualifies as a REIT, our interests in the Subsidiary REITs will be treated as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT
asset tests. If a Subsidiary REIT fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, such Subsidiary REIT will be subject to federal and
state income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for the four subsequent taxable years. Any such failure could have an
adverse effect on our ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a REIT, unless we
are able to avail ourselves of certain relief provisions. 
The 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial
transactions 
To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make
distributions to our stockholders. Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to
satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid
assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement. This may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and
actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in
arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. In addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or
repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to
enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. In the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain
cash, we may borrow funds, even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings, issue additional
equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute
other property or securities or engage in other transactions intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements. This
may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. 
Our use of TRSs is limited under the Code
Under the Code, no more than 20% of the value of the gross assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more
TRSs. This limitation may affect our ability to increase the size of our TRSs’ operations and assets, and there can be no assurance
that we will be able to comply with the applicable limitation, or that such compliance will not adversely affect our business. Also,
our TRSs may not, among other things, operate or manage certain health care facilities, which may cause us to forgo investments
34
we might otherwise make. Finally, we may be subject to a 100% excise tax on the income derived from certain transactions with
our TRSs that are not on an arm's-length basis. We believe our arrangements with our TRSs are on arm's-length terms and intend to
continue to operate in a manner that allows us to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above, but there can be no
assurance that we will be able to avoid application of that tax.
The lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to special requirements
We lease certain qualified health care properties to taxable REIT subsidiaries (or limited liability companies of which the taxable
REIT subsidiaries are members), which lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care operations at
these properties. The rents from this taxable REIT subsidiary lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1)
they are paid pursuant to an arm's-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable REIT subsidiary and (2) the
manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor (as defined in the Code). If any of these conditions are not satisfied, then
the rents will not be qualifying rents. 
If certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) as “true leases,” we may be
subject to adverse tax consequences 
We have purchased certain properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may enter into similar
transactions in the future. We intend for any such sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will be
characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
However, depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the IRS might take the position that the transaction is not a “true
lease” but is more properly treated in some other manner. In the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and successfully
re-characterized by the IRS, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and cost recovery generally available
to an owner of property. Furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT
asset tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our REIT status effective with the year of re-characterization. Alternatively,
the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the REIT annual distribution
requirements for a taxable year. 
We could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to
additional tax liabilities 
We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of
earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. We are also subject to the
examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the IRS and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly
assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes.
There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If we were subject to review or examination by the IRS or
applicable foreign jurisdiction as the result of any new tax law changes, the ultimate determination of which may change our taxes
owed for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued or recorded, our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows
could be adversely affected.
The present federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or
administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. The federal income
tax rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation and REITs are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative
process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations
and interpretations. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. Revisions in federal tax laws
and interpretations thereof could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, as well as the tax
considerations relevant to an investment in us, or could cause us to change our investments and commitments.
Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments
None.
35
Item 2.  Properties 
We lease our corporate headquarters located at 4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio 43615. We also lease corporate offices throughout
the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom and Luxembourg and have ground leases relating to certain of our properties. The following
table sets forth certain information regarding the properties that comprise our consolidated real property and real estate loan
investments as of December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands):
 Seniors Housing Operating  Triple-net Outpatient Medical
Property LocationNumber of
PropertiesTotal
InvestmentAnnualized
Revenues (1) Number of
PropertiesTotal
InvestmentAnnualized
Revenues (1)Number of
PropertiesTotal
InvestmentAnnualized
Revenues (1)
Alaska — $ — $ — — $ — $ — 2$ 29,810 $ (2,240 )
Alabama 2 15,133 6,083  2 19,705 2,569 8 94,244 10,565
Arkansas — — — — — — 2 42,529 3,529
Arizona 6 86,883 32,517  — — — 8 87,655 11,077
California 82 3,052,393 688,631  23 456,935 64,633 45 1,092,865 105,239
Colorado 11 427,566 87,463  12 302,374 32,854 2 33,628 5,074
Connecticut 3 66,838 17,820  8 117,918 15,21 1 1 41,421 5,499
District Of
Columbia 2 78,356 14,540  — — — — — —
Delaware 3 69,290 25,484  7 114,126 9,544 — 46,998 1,402
Florida 14 898,178 144,974  51 583,500 56,682 42 529,060 74,346
Geor gia 9 127,018 38,612  3 40,852 3,570 13 236,915 32,572
Iowa 4 75,655 28,926  7 57,537 5,884 1 7,734 1,648
Idaho 1 22,405 5,433  — 67 — 2 55,317 1,399
Illinois 16 454,088 119,759  25 356,243 31,919 7 108,941 14,426
Indiana — — — 28 358,904 45,696 10 164,034 22,324
Kansas 3 67,263 15,133  27 242,844 27,460 5 62,249 8,665
Kentucky 2 37,074 14,461  6 50,485 4,187 1 6,792 762
Louisiana 3 50,062 15,957  1 8,076 840 — — —
Massachusetts 19 565,730 113,921  9 110,005 16,484 7 110,662 4,556
Maryland 8 393,479 90,687  24 298,974 18,155 12 283,567 28,576
Maine 1 25,151 11,995  — — — 1 18,601 2,693
Michigan 6 165,217 32,231  18 207,961 20,225 3 70,250 7,706
Minnesota 3 83,838 15,771  11 233,938 21,552 9 182,594 30,679
Missouri 6 153,312 25,085  1 12,089 854 11 201,245 23,578
Mississippi 2 14,870 8,354  1 10,820 — 1 37,866 1,020
Montana 1 5,635 4,484  1 6,131 767 — — —
North
Carolina 2 113,352 19,680  50 372,570 54,641 26 479,061 39,975
Nebraska — — — 4 29,852 4,418 2 32,943 4,885
New
Hampshire — — — 4 47,720 7,341 1 12,038 1,721
New Jersey 26 688,084 210,140  41 771,913 84,672 15 407,653 51,813
New Mexico 1 17,505 1,548  — — — 3 29,424 3,594
Nevada 4 47,210 23,816  1 18,780 3,767 8 100,851 10,794
New York 27 596,987 141,993  4 41,850 7,271 18 434,793 17,454
Ohio 17 422,614 66,041  34 288,499 35,030 9 125,346 13,712
Oklahoma 2 37,620 3,650  20 219,772 25,505 2 22,736 4,361
Oregon 1 10,339 2,678  1 2,793 818 2 55,131 4,059
Pennsylvania 14 222,217 67,864  71 837,818 116,500 1 34,315 2,312
South
Carolina 1 4,086 7,121  8 37,460 3,069 3 33,762 3,684
Tennessee 2 48,041 16,259  4 37,879 4,791 9 177,859 18,778
Texas 33 1,088,682 234,874  37 393,201 53,592 71 1,386,701 135,489
Utah 2 20,355 7,875  1 23,614 2,103 — — —
Virginia 5 282,587 77,302  27 281,446 29,81 1 6 119,944 14,492
Washington 24 625,662 137,873  7 93,483 10,254 9 218,008 26,987
Wisconsin 2 19,850 8,493  4 67,702 8,640 5 94,723 6,123
West Virginia — — — 3 45,336 5,107 — — —
Total
domestic 370 11,180,625 2,585,528  586 7,201,172 836,416 383 7,310,265 755,328
Canada 106 2,150,044 452,734  6 146,737 10,341 — — —
United
Kingdom 57 1,634,009 352,658  66 1,228,409 106,336 4 268,010 25,587
Total
international 163 3,784,053 805,392  72 1,375,146 116,677 4 268,010 25,587
Grand total 533 $14,964,678 $ 3,390,920  658 $ 8,576,318 $ 953,093 387 $ 7,578,275 $ 780,915
(1) Represents revenue for the month ended December 31, 2019 annualized.
36
The following table sets forth occupancy and average annualized revenues for certain property types (excluding investments in
unconsolidated entities):
 Occupancy(1)  Average Annualized Revenues(2)  
 2019 2018  2019 2018   
Seniors Housing Operating(3) 86.9% 87.5%  $ 56,329 $ 60,635 per unit
Triple-net(4) 84.3% 84.9%  14,578 12,831 per bed/unit
Outpatient Medical(5) 94.1% 93.1%  34 34 per sq. ft.
(1) We use unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate occupancy for properties other than Outpatient Medical
buildings and have not independently verified the information.
(2) Represents December annualized revenues divided by total beds, units or square feet as presented in the tables above.
(3) Occupancy represents average occupancy for the three months ended December 31.
(4) Occupancy represents average quarterly operating occupancy based on the quarters ended September 30 and excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or
for which data is not available or meaningful.
(5) Occupancy represents the percentage of total rentable square feet leased and occupied (including month-to-month and holdover leases and excluding
terminations) as of December 31.
The following table sets forth information regarding lease expirations for certain portions of our portfolio as of December 31,
2019 (dollars in thousands):
  Expiration Year(1)
  2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 Thereafter
Triple-net:                 
Properties 11 7 10 1 4 48 76 18 15 15 431
Base
rent(2) $ 3,782 $12,292 $ 8,889 $ 840 $11,262 $53,216 $103,179 $35,381 $22,036 $33,619 $492,113
% of base
rent  0.5% 1.6% 1.1% 0.1% 1.5% 6.9% 13.3% 4.6% 2.8% 4.3% 63.3%
Units 1,101 1,394 1,264 70 692 3,033 6,085 2,350 1,633 1,429 44,811
% of
units  1.7% 2.2% 2.0% 0.1% 1.1% 4.7% 9.5% 3.7% 2.6% 2.2% 70.2%
Outpatient Medical:                
Square
feet  1,748,858 2,053,686 2,165,074 2,158,927 2,230,230 1,305,946 1,670,290 1,025,948 1,052,671 1,148,176 6,183,564
Base
rent(2) $48,233 $57,464 $58,846 $58,295 $65,687 $34,681 $42,112 $25,805 $27,501 $29,829 $139,889
% of base
rent  8.2% 9.8% 10.0% 9.9% 11.2% 5.9% 7.2% 4.4% 4.7% 5.1% 23.6%
Leases 471 422 433 442 355 213 208 137 118 152 214
% of
leases 14.9% 13.3% 13.7% 14.0% 11.2% 6.7% 6.6% 4.3% 3.7% 4.8% 6.8%
 
(1) Excludes investments in unconsolidated entities, developments, land parcels, loans receivable and sub-leases. Investments classified as held for sale are included in 2020.
(2) The most recent monthly cash base rent annualized. Base rent does not include tenant recoveries or amortization of above and below market lease intangibles or other non cash income.
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings
From time to time, there are various legal proceedings pending against us that arise in the ordinary course of our business. 
Management does not believe that the resolution of any of these legal proceedings either individually or in the aggregate will have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Further, from time to time, we are party to
certain legal proceedings for which third parties, such as tenants, operators and/or managers are contractually obligated to
indemnify, defend and hold us harmless. In some of these matters, the indemnitors have insurance for the potential damages.  In
other matters, we are being defended by tenants and other obligated third parties and these indemnitors may not have sufficient
insurance, assets, income or resources to satisfy their defense and indemnification obligations to us. The unfavorable resolution of
such legal proceedings could, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect the indemnitors’ ability to satisfy their
respective obligations to us, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial
condition.  It is management’s opinion that there are currently no such legal proceedings pending that will, individually or in the
aggregate, have such a material adverse effect. Despite management’s view of the ultimate resolution of these legal proceedings,
we may have significant legal expenses and costs associated with the defense of such matters. Further, management cannot predict
the outcome of these legal proceedings and if management’s expectation regarding such matters is not correct, such proceedings
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.
Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures
None.
37
PART II
Item 5.  Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:WELL). There were 3,564 stockholders of record as of
January 31, 2020.
Stockholder Return Performance Presentation 
Set forth below is a line graph comparing the yearly percentage change and the cumulative total stockholder return on our shares
of common stock against the cumulative total return of the S & P Composite-500 Stock Index and the FTSE NAREIT Equity
Index. As of December 31, 2019, 155 companies comprised the FTSE NAREIT Equity Index, which consists of REITs identified
by NAREIT as equity (those REITs which have at least 75% of their investments in real property). The data are based on the
closing prices as of December 31 for each of the five years. 2014 equals $100 and dividends are assumed to be reinvested.
 12/31/2014 12/31/2015 12/31/2016 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2019
S & P 500 $ 100.00 $ 101.38 $ 113.51 $ 138.29 $ 132.23 $ 173.86
Welltower Inc. 100.00 94.28 97.45 97.65 112.59 138.52
FTSE NAREIT
Equity 100.00 103.20 111.99 117.84 112.39 141.61
 
Except to the extent that we specifically incorporate this information by reference, the foregoing Stockholder Return
Performance Presentation shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general statement incorporating by reference this
Annual Report on Form 10-K into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended. This information shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts.  
Issuer  Purchases of Equity Securities
PeriodTotal Number of
Shares Purchased(1) Average Price Paid
Per ShareTotal Number of Shares
Purchased as Part of Publicly
Announced Plans or
Programs(2)  Maximum Number of Shares
that May Yet Be Purchased
Under the Plans or Programs
October 1, 2019 through October 31, 2019 4,546 $ 91.04    
November 1, 2019 through November 30, 2019 728 86.12    
December 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019 891 78.67    
Totals 6,165 $ 89.43    
(1) During the three months ended December 31, 2019, the company acquired shares of common stock held by employees who tendered owned shares to satisfy tax
withholding obligations.
(2) No shares were purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs.
38
Item 6.  Selected Financial Data
The following selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 2019 are derived from our audited consolidated
financial statements (in thousands, except per share data):
  Year Ended December 31,
  2015 2016 2017  2018 2019
Operating Data        
Total revenues  $ 3,859,826 $ 4,281,160 $ 4,316,641 $ 4,700,499 $ 5,121,306
Total expenses  3,223,709 3,571,907 4,017,025 4,277,009 4,578,414
Income from continuing operations before income
taxes and other items  636,117 709,253 299,616 423,490 542,892
Income tax (expense) benefit  (6,451) 19,128 (20,128) (8,674) (2,957)
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities  (21,504) (10,357) (83,125) (641) 42,434
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net  280,387 364,046 344,250 415,575 748,041
Income from continuing operations  888,549 1,082,070 540,613 829,750 1,330,410
Net income  888,549 1,082,070 540,613 829,750 1,330,410
Preferred stock dividends  65,406 65,406 49,410 46,704 —
Preferred stock redemption charge  — — 9,769 — —
Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling
interests  4,799 4,267 17,839 24,796 97,978
Net income attributable to common stockholders  $ 818,344 $ 1,012,397 $ 463,595 $ 758,250 $ 1,232,432
Other Data        
Average number of common shares outstanding:        
Basic  348,240 358,275 367,237 373,620 401,845
Diluted  349,424 360,227 369,001 375,250 403,808
Per Share Data        
Basic:        
Income from continuing operations  $ 2.55 $ 3.02 $ 1.47 $ 2.22 $ 3.31
Net income attributable to common
stockholders  $ 2.35 $ 2.83 $ 1.26 $ 2.03 $ 3.07
Diluted:        
Income from continuing operations  $ 2.54 $ 3.00 $ 1.47 $ 2.21 $ 3.29
Net income attributable to common
stockholders  $ 2.34 $ 2.81 $ 1.26 $ 2.02 $ 3.05
Cash distributions per common share  $ 3.30 $ 3.44 $ 3.48 $ 3.48 $ 3.48
  December 31,
Balance Sheet Data  2015 2016 2017  2018 2019
Net real estate investments(1)  $ 26,888,685 $ 26,563,629 $ 26,171,077 $ 28,420,769 $ 31,119,271
Total assets  29,023,845 28,865,184 27,944,445 30,342,072 33,380,751
Total debt and lease obligations(1)  12,967,686 12,358,245 11,731,936 13,297,144 15,388,765
Total liabilities  13,664,877 13,185,279 12,643,799 14,331,427 16,398,247
Total preferred stock  1,006,250 1,006,250 718,503 718,498 —
Total equity  15,175,885 15,281,472 14,925,452 15,586,599 16,506,627
(1) Effective January 1, 2019, we adopted new guidance on leases using the prospective method. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further
details.
39
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
  
Company Overview 41
Business Strategy 41
Key Transactions 42
Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties 43
Corporate Governance 44
  
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
  
Sources and Uses of Cash 45
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 45
Contractual Obligations 46
Capital Structure 46
  
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  
Summary 47
Seniors Housing Operating 48
Triple-net 50
Outpatient Medical 51
Non-Segment/Corporate 53
  
OTHER
  
Non-GAAP Financial Measures 54
Critical Accounting Policies 57
 
40
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion and analysis is based primarily on the consolidated financial statements of Welltower Inc. presented in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) for the periods presented and should be read
together with the notes thereto contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other important factors are identified in “Item 1 —
Business” and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” above.
Executive Summary
Company Overview
Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care
infrastructure. The company invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the
real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care
experience. Welltower™, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth
markets in the United States (“U.S.”), Canada and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), consisting of seniors housing and post-acute
communities and outpatient medical properties. Our capital programs, when combined with comprehensive planning, development
and property management services, make us a single-source solution for acquiring, planning, developing, managing, repositioning
and monetizing real estate assets.
The following table summarizes our consolidated portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands):
  Percentage of Number of
Type of Property NOI(1)NOI Properties
Seniors Housing Operating $ 1,039,520 42.8% 533
Triple-net 918,743 37.9% 658
Outpatient Medical 469,035 19.3% 387
Totals $ 2,427,298 100.0 % 1,578
(1) Represents consolidated net operating income ("NOI") and excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated entities. Entities in which we have a joint venture
with a minority partner are shown at 100% of the joint venture amount. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and reconciliation.
Business Strategy
Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash
dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in
net operating income and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and
health care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location.
Substantially all of our revenues are derived from operating lease rentals, resident fees/services and interest earned on
outstanding loans receivable. These items represent our primary sources of liquidity to fund distributions and depend upon the
continued ability of our obligors to make contractual rent and interest payments to us and the profitability of our operating
properties. To the extent that our obligors/partners experience operating difficulties and become unable to generate sufficient cash
to make payments or operating distributions to us, there could be a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of
operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. To mitigate this risk, we monitor our investments through a variety of methods
determined by the type of property. Our asset management process for seniors housing properties generally includes review of
monthly financial statements and other operating data for each property, review of obligor/partner creditworthiness, property
inspections and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our
internal property management division manages and monitors the outpatient medical portfolio with a comprehensive process
including review of tenant relations, lease expirations, the mix of health service providers, hospital/health system relationships,
property performance, capital improvement needs and market conditions among other things. We evaluate the operating
environment in each property’s market to determine the likely trend in operating performance of the facility. When we identify
unacceptable trends, we seek to mitigate, eliminate or transfer the risk. Through these efforts, we generally aim to intervene at an
early stage to address any negative trends, and in so doing, support both the collectability of revenue and the value of our
investment.
In addition to our asset management and research efforts, we also aim to structure our relevant investments to mitigate payment
risk. Operating leases and loans are normally credit enhanced by guarantees and/or letters of credit. In addition, operating leases are
typically structured as master leases and loans are generally cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other real estate loans,
operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor and its affiliates.
For the year ended December 31, 2019, resident fees/services and rental income represented 67% and 31%, respectively, of total
revenues. Substantially all of our operating leases are designed with escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental
escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental
income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due
for the period. Our yield on loans receivable depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, the average
principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate adjustments.
41
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Our primary sources of cash include resident fees and services, rent and interest receipts, borrowings under our unsecured
revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, public issuances of debt and equity securities, proceeds from investment
dispositions and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include dividend distributions, debt service
payments (including principal and interest), real property investments (including acquisitions, capital expenditures, construction
advances and transaction costs), loan advances, property operating expenses and general and administrative expenses. Depending
upon the availability and cost of external capital, we believe our liquidity is sufficient to fund these uses of cash.
We also continuously evaluate opportunities to finance future investments. New investments are generally funded from
temporary borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, internally generated cash and
the proceeds from investment dispositions. Our investments generate cash from NOI and principal payments on loans receivable.
Permanent financing for future investments, which replaces funds drawn under our unsecured revolving credit facility and
commercial paper program, has historically been provided through a combination of the issuance of public debt and equity
securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt.
Depending upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in the future with spreads over our cost of
capital that will generate appropriate returns to our stockholders. It is also likely that investment dispositions may occur in the
future. To the extent that investment dispositions exceed new investments, our revenues and cash flows from operations could be
adversely affected. We expect to reinvest the proceeds from any investment dispositions in new investments. To the extent that new
investment requirements exceed our available cash on-hand, we expect to borrow under our unsecured revolving credit facility and
commercial paper program. At December 31, 2019, we had $284,917,000 of cash and cash equivalents, $100,849,000 of restricted
cash and $1,411,400,000 of available borrowing capacity under our unsecured revolving credit facility.
Key Transactions
Capital  The following summarizes key capital transactions that occurred and supported new investments made during the year
ended December 31, 2019:
•In January 2019, we established an unsecured commercial paper program. Under the terms of the program, we may issue,
from time to time, unsecured commercial paper with maturities that vary, but do not exceed 397 days from the date of
issue, up to a maximum aggregate principal amount outstanding at any time of $1,000,000,000.
•In February 2019, we elected to effect the mandatory conversion of all of the outstanding 6.50% Series I Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock. Each share of convertible stock was converted into 0.8857 shares of common stock.
•In February 2019, we entered into an amended and restated Equity Shelf Program (as defined below) pursuant to which we
may offer and sell up to $1,500,000,000 of common stock from time to time. We sold 18,591,000 shares of common stock
under our current and previous Equity Shelf Programs and DRIP (as defined below), via both cash settle and forward sale
agreements, generating expected gross proceeds of approximately $1,498,731,000.
•In February 2019, we completed the issuance of $500,000,000 of 3.625% senior unsecured notes due 2024 and
$550,000,000 of 4.125% senior unsecured notes due 2029 for net proceeds of approximately $1,036,964,000.
•In March 2019 we repaid our $600,000,000 of 4.125% senior unsecured notes due 2019 and $450,000,000 of 6.125%
senior unsecured notes due 2020.
•In August 2019, we completed the issuance of $750,000,000 of 3.10% senior unsecured notes due 2030 and a follow-on
issuance of $450,000,000 of 3.625% senior unsecured notes due 2024 priced to yield 2.494%, for net proceeds of
approximately $1,209,328,000.
•In September 2019, we repaid our $450,000,000 of 4.95% senior unsecured notes due 2021 and $600,000,000 of 5.25%
senior unsecured notes due 2022.
•In December 2019, we completed the issuance of $500,000,000 of 2.70% senior unsecured notes due 2027. The net
proceeds of approximately $495,066,000 will be used to fund renewable energy, water conservation, energy efficiency and
green building projects. Additionally, we completed the issuance of $300,000,000 of 2.95% Canadian-denominated senior
unsecured notes due 2027 generating net proceeds of approximately CAD $297,668,000.
•In December 2019, we redeemed all of the outstanding $300,000,000 Canadian-denominated 3.35% senior unsecured
notes due 2020.
•We extinguished $230,108,000 of secured debt at a blended average interest rate of 4.35% throughout 2019.
42
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Investments The following summarizes property acquisitions and joint venture investments made during the year ended
December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands):
 Properties  Investment Amount(1)Capitalization Rates(2) Book Amount(3)
Seniors Housing Operating 62 $ 1,459,254 5.1%  $ 1,802,836
Triple-net 10 217,658 6.5%  227,379
Outpatient Medical 105  2,396,642 5.6%  2,491,159
Totals 177  $ 4,073,554 5.4%  $ 4,521,374
 
(1) Represents stated pro rata purchase price including cash and any assumed debt but excludes fair value adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP.
(2) Represents annualized contractual or projected NOI to be received in cash divided by investment amounts.
(3) Represents amounts recorded in real property including fair value adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for
additional information.
Dispositions The following summarizes property dispositions made during the year ended December 31, 2019 (dollars in
thousands):
 Properties  Proceeds(1)Capitalization Rates(2) Book Amount(3)
Seniors Housing Operating(4)55 $ 1,803,413 5.4%  $ 1,232,816
Triple-net 57 902,731 7.9%  667,632
Outpatient Medical(5)1 8,500 10.5%  482
Totals 113 $ 2,714,644 6.3%  $ 1,900,930
 
(1) Represents pro rata proceeds received upon disposition.
(2) Represents annualized contractual net operating income that was being received in cash at date of disposition divided by disposition proceeds.
(3) Represents carrying value of assets at time of disposition. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
(4) Includes the disposition of an unconsolidated real estate investment.
(5) Reflects the disposition of an excess land parcel.
Dividends Our Board of Directors announced the 2020 annual cash dividend of $3.48 per common share ($0.87 per share
quarterly), consistent with 2019, beginning in February 2020. The dividend declared for the quarter ended December 31, 2019
represents the 195th consecutive quarterly dividend payment.
Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties
We utilize several key performance indicators to evaluate the various aspects of our business. These indicators are discussed
below and relate to operating performance, credit strength and concentration risk. Management uses these key performance
indicators to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical operating results, in making operating decisions, and for
budget planning purposes.
Operating Performance We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders (“NICS”) per the
Statement of Comprehensive Income are the most appropriate earnings measures. Other useful supplemental measures of our
operating performance include funds from operations attributable to common stockholders (“FFO”) and consolidated net operating
income (“NOI”); however, these supplemental measures are not defined by U.S. GAAP. Please refer to the section entitled “Non-
GAAP Financial Measures” for further discussion and reconciliations. These earnings measures are widely used by investors and
analysts in the valuation, comparison and investment recommendations of companies. The following table reflects the recent
historical trends of our operating performance measures for the periods presented (in thousands):  
  Year Ended December 31,
  2019  2018  2017
Net income  $ 1,330,410  $ 829,750  $ 540,613
Net income attributable to common stockholders  1,232,432  758,250  463,595
Funds from operations attributable to common
stockholders  1,577,080  1,392,183  1,165,576
Consolidated net operating income  2,431,264  2,267,482  2,232,716
 
Credit Strength We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios indicate
how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to long-term debt, net of cash and Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) section
1031 deposits. The coverage ratios indicate our ability to service interest and fixed charges (interest, secured debt principal
amortization and preferred dividends). We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain a
capital structure consistent with our current profile. The coverage ratios are based on adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization (“Adjusted EBITDA”). Please refer to the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for
further discussion and reconciliation of these measures. Leverage ratios and coverage ratios are widely used by investors, analysts
and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, investment recommendations and rating of companies. The following table
reflects the recent historical trends for our credit strength measures for the periods presented:  
43
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 Year Ended December 31,
 2019  2018  2017
Net debt to book capitalization ratio 46.5%  45.0%  42.9%
Net debt to undepreciated book capitalization ratio 39.4%  37.8%  36.3%
Net debt to market capitalization ratio 29.6%  31.3%  31.2%
Adjusted interest coverage ratio 4.14x  4.11x  4.36x
Adjusted fixed char ge coverage ratio 3.78x  3.44x  3.54x
 
Concentration Risk We evaluate our concentration risk in terms of NOI by property mix, relationship mix and geographic mix.
Concentration risk is a valuable measure in understanding what portion of our NOI could be at risk if certain sectors were to
experience downturns. Property mix measures the portion of our NOI that relates to our various property types. Relationship mix
measures the portion of our NOI that relates to our current top five relationships. Geographic mix measures the portion of our NOI
that relates to our current top five states (or international equivalents). The following table reflects our recent historical trends of
concentration risk by NOI for the years indicated below:
  December 31,(1)
  2019  2018  2017
Property mix:      
 Seniors Housing Operating 43%  43%  40%
 Triple-net 38%  40%  43%
 Outpatient Medical 19%  17%  17%
Relationship mix:      
 Sunrise Senior Living(2)14%  15%  14%
 ProMedica 9%  4%  —%
 Revera(2)6%  7%  7%
 Genesis HealthCare 5%  6%  9%
 Belmont Village 3%  3%  3%
 Remaining 63%  65%  67%
Geographic mix:      
 California 13%  14%  13%
 United Kingdom 8%  9%  9%
 Texas 8%  8%  7%
 New Jersey 7%  8%  8%
 Canada 7%  7%  8%
 Remaining 57%  54%  55%
 
(1) Excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated entities and non-segment/corporate NOI. Entities in which we have a joint venture with a minority partner
are shown at 100% of the joint venture amount.
(2) Revera owns a controlling interest in Sunrise Senior Living.
We evaluate our key performance indicators in conjunction with current expectations to determine if historical trends are
indicative of future results. Our expected results may not be achieved and actual results may differ materially from our
expectations. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results are described in more detail in “Item 1 —
Business — Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” and other sections of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management regularly monitors economic and other factors to develop strategic and tactical
plans designed to improve performance and maximize our competitive position. Our ability to achieve our financial objectives is
dependent upon our ability to effectively execute these plans and to appropriately respond to emerging economic and company-
specific trends. Please refer to “Item 1 — Business,” “Item 1A — Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further
discussion of these risk factors.
Corporate Governance
Maintaining investor confidence and trust is important in today’s business environment. Our Board of Directors and management
are strongly committed to policies and procedures that reflect the highest level of ethical business practices. Our corporate
governance guidelines provide the framework for our business operations and emphasize our commitment to increase stockholder
value while meeting all applicable legal requirements. These guidelines meet the listing standards adopted by the New York Stock
Exchange and are available on the Internet at www.welltower.com/investors/governance. The information on our website is not
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference
only.
44
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Sources and Uses of Cash
Our primary sources of cash include resident fees and services, rent and interest receipts, borrowings under our unsecured
revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, public issuances of debt and equity securities, proceeds from investment
dispositions and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include dividend distributions, debt service
payments (including principal and interest), real property investments (including acquisitions, capital expenditures, construction
advances and transaction costs), loan advances, property operating expenses and general and administrative expenses. These
sources and uses of cash are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and are discussed in further detail below. The
following is a summary of our sources and uses of cash flows for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
  Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change  Two Year Change
  December 31,  December 31,    December 31,       
  2019  2018 $  % 2017 $  %  $ %
Cash, cash equivalents and
restricted cash at beginning of
period  $ 316,129  $ 309,303 $ 6,826  2 % $ 607,220 $(297,917 ) -49 % $(291,091 ) -48 %
Net cash provided from (used
in):         n/a
Operating activities  1,535,968  1,583,944 (47,976 ) -3 % 1,434,177 149,767  10 % 101,791 7 %
Investing activities  (2,048,791 ) (2,386,471 ) 337,680  -14 % 154,581 (2,541,052 ) n/a  (2,203,372 ) n/a
Financing activities  577,150  818,368 (241,218 ) -29 % (1,913,527 ) 2,731,895  n/a  2,490,677 n/a
Effect of foreign currency
translation  5,310  (9,015 ) 14,325  n/a 26,852 (35,867 ) n/a  (21,542 ) -80 %
Cash, cash equivalents and
restricted cash at end of period  $ 385,766  $ 316,129 $ 69,637  22 % $ 309,303 $ 6,826  2 % $ 76,463 25 %
 
Operating Activities The change in net cash provided from operating activities is attributable to changes in NOI, which is
primarily due to acquisitions and annual rent increasers, partially offset by dispositions. Please see “Results of Operations” below
for further discussion. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, cash flows from operations exceeded cash
distributions to stockholders.
Investing Activities  The changes in net cash used in investing activities are primarily attributable to net changes in real property
investments, loans receivable and investments in unconsolidated entities which are summarized above in “Key Transactions.”
Please refer to Notes 3, 7, and 8 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information. The following is a summary of
cash used in non-acquisition capital improvement activities for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
  Year Ended  One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
  December 31, December 31,   December 31,      
  2019 2018  $ % 2017 $  % $ %
New development  $ 323,488 $ 160,706 $162,782 101% $ 232,715 $(72,009) -31 % $90,773 39%
Recurring capital expenditures,
tenant improvements and lease
commissions  136,535 90,190 46,345 51% 67,797 22,393 33 % 68,738 101%
Renovations, redevelopments
and other capital improvements 192,289 175,993 16,296 9% 182,479 (6,486) -4 % 9,810 5%
Total  $ 652,312 $ 426,889 $225,423 53% $ 482,991 $(56,102) -12 % $169,321 35%
 
The change in new development is primarily due to the number and size of construction projects on-going during the relevant
periods. Renovations, redevelopments and other capital improvements include expenditures to maximize property value, increase
net operating income, maintain a market-competitive position and/or achieve property stabilization. 
Financing Activities The changes in net cash provided from financing activities are primarily attributable to changes related to
our long-term debt arrangements, the issuance/redemptions of common and preferred stock and dividend payments which are
summarized above in “Key Transactions.” Please refer to Notes 10, 11 and 14 of our consolidated financial statements for
additional information.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
At December 31, 2019, we had investments in unconsolidated entities with our ownership generally ranging from 10% to 50%.
We use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate exposure. At December 31, 2019,
we had thirteen outstanding letter of credit obligations. Please see Notes 8, 12 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements for
additional information.
45
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Contractual Obligations
The following table summarizes our payment requirements under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019 (in
thousands):
 Payments Due by Period
Contractual Obligations Total 2020 2021-2022 2023-2024 Thereafter
Unsecured revolving credit facility and
commercial paper(1,2)$ 1,588,600 $ 643,600 $ — $ 945,000 $ —
Senior unsecured notes and term credit
facilities:(2)    
U.S. Dollar senior unsecured notes 8,100,000 — — 2,450,000 5,650,000
     Canadian Dollar senior unsecured
notes(3)231,446 — — — 231,446
     Pounds Sterling senior unsecured
notes(3)1,393,245 — — — 1,393,245
U.S. Dollar term credit facility 510,000 — 10,000 500,000 —
     Canadian Dollar term credit facility(3)192,871 — — 192,871 —
Secured debt:(2,3)    
Consolidated 2,993,342 354,329 861,052 771,91 1 1,006,050
     Unconsolidated  826,396 57,728 52,172 95,783 620,713
Contractual interest obligations:(4)    
Unsecured revolving credit facility and
commercial paper 86,065 25,302 48,610 12,153 —
     Senior unsecured notes and term loans(3)4,144,774 410,322 838,436 735,197 2,160,819
     Consolidated secured debt(3)510,973 101,577 163,885 100,441 145,070
     Unconsolidated secured debt(3)179,382 28,056 52,130 39,623 59,573
Financing lease liabilities(5)186,335 9,121 16,935 70,601 89,678
Operating lease obligations(5)1,185,632 23,356 45,469 43,41 1 1,073,396
Purchase obligations(6)727,558 536,105 150,656 27,787 13,010
Total contractual obligations $ 22,856,619 $ 2,189,496 $ 2,239,345 $ 5,984,778 $ 12,443,000
(1) Relates to our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper with an aggregate commitment of $3,000,000,000. See Note 10 to our consolidated
financial statements.
(2) Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not reflect unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet.
(3) Based on foreign currency exchange rates in effect as of balance sheet date.
(4) Based on variable interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2019.
(5) See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
(6) See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Capital Structure
Please refer to “Credit Strength” above for a discussion of our leverage and coverage ratio trends. Our debt agreements contain
various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Certain agreements require us to maintain financial ratios and minimum net
worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of
December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements. None of our debt agreements
contain provisions for acceleration which could be triggered by our debt ratings. However, under our primary unsecured credit
facility, the ratings on our senior unsecured notes are used to determine the fees and interest charged. We plan to manage the
company to maintain compliance with our debt covenants and with a capital structure consistent with our current profile. Any
downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and
availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or
financial condition.
On May 17, 2018, we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (1) an open-ended automatic or “universal” shelf
registration statement covering an indeterminate amount of future offerings of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock,
depositary shares, warrants and units and (2) a registration statement in connection with our enhanced dividend reinvestment plan
(“DRIP”) under which we may issue up to 15,000,000 shares of common stock. As of January 31, 2020, 2,728,696 shares of
common stock remained available for issuance under the DRIP registration statement. On February 25, 2019, we entered into
separate amended and restated equity distribution agreements with each of Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc.,
Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC,
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, MUFG
Securities Americas Inc., RBC Capital Markets, LLC, UBS Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC relating to the offer
and sale from time to time of up to $1,500,000,000 aggregate amount of our common stock (“Equity Shelf Program”), which
replaced our existing equity shelf program entered into on August 3, 2018. The Equity Shelf Program also allows us to enter into
forward sale agreements. As of January 31, 2020, we had $1,075,537,000 of remaining capacity under the Equity Shelf Program,
which excludes
46
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
forward sales agreements outstanding for the sale of 6,799,978 shares with maturity dates in 2020 and 2021. We expect to
physically settle the forward sales for cash proceeds. Depending upon market conditions, we anticipate issuing securities under our
registration statements to invest in additional properties and to repay borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and
commercial paper program.
Results of Operations
Summary
Our primary sources of revenue include resident fees and services, rent and interest income. Our primary expenses include
interest expense, depreciation and amortization, property operating expenses, other expenses and general and administrative
expenses.  We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three business segments: Seniors Housing Operating,
Triple-net and Outpatient Medical. The primary performance measures for our properties are NOI and SSNOI and other
supplemental measures include FFO and Adjusted EBITDA, which are further discussed below. Please see "Non-GAAP Financial
Measures" for additional information and reconciliations related to these supplemental measures. 
This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2019 and 2018 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018.
Discussions of 2017 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2018 and 2017 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be
found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the periods presented (dollars in thousands, except per share
amounts):
  Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
  December 31, December 31,    December 31,      
  2019  2018 Amount % 2017  Amount %  Amount %
Net income  $1,330,410 $ 829,750 $500,660 60% $ 540,613 $289,137 53 % $789,797 146 %
NICS  1,232,432 758,250 474,182 63% 463,595 294,655 64 % 768,837 166 %
FFO  1,577,080 1,392,183 184,897 13% 1,165,576 226,607 19 % 411,504 35 %
Adjusted EBITDA  2,328,202 2,153,005 175,197 8% 2,128,429 24,576 1 % 199,773 9 %
Consolidated NOI  2,431,264 2,267,482 163,782 7% 2,232,716 34,766 2 % 198,548 9 %
         
Per share data (fully diluted):            
Net income attributable to
common
stockholders  $ 3.05 $ 2.02 $ 1.03 51% $ 1.26 $ 0.76 60 % $ 1.79 142 %
Funds from operations
attributable to
common stockholders  $ 3.91 $ 3.71 $ 0.20 5% $ 3.16 $ 0.55 17 % $ 0.75 24 %
         
Adjusted interest coverage ratio  4.14x 4.11x 0.03x 1% 4.36x -0.25x -6 % -0.22x -5 %
Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio  3.78x 3.44x 0.34x 10% 3.54x -0.10x -3 % 0.24x 7 %
 
The following table represents the changes in outstanding common stock for the period from January 1, 2017 to December 31,
2019 (in thousands):
 Year Ended   
 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018  December 31, 2017  Totals
Beginning balance 383,675 371,732  362,602  362,602
Dividend reinvestment plan issuances 5,799 6,529  5,640  17,968
Preferred stock conversions 12,712 — 4 12,716
Redemption of equity membership units — — 91 91
Option exercises 11 57 253  321
Equity Shelf Program issuances 7,856 5,241  2,987  16,084
Other , net 204 116 155  475
Ending balance 410,257 383,675  371,732  410,257
Average number of shares outstanding:      
Basic 401,845 373,620  367,237   
Diluted 403,808 375,250  369,001   
 
During the past three years, inflation has not significantly affected our earnings because of the moderate inflation rate.
Additionally, a portion of our earnings are derived primarily from long-term investments with predictable rates of return. These
investments are mainly financed with a combination of equity, senior unsecured notes, secured debt and borrowings under our
primary unsecured credit facility. During inflationary periods, which generally are accompanied by rising interest rates, our ability
to grow may be adversely affected because the yield on new investments may increase at a slower rate than new borrowing costs.
Presuming the current inflation rate remains moderate and long-term interest rates do not increase significantly, we believe that
inflation will not impact the availability of equity and debt financing for us.
47
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Seniors Housing Operating 
The following is a summary of our same store NOI ("SSNOI") for the Seniors Housing Operating segment for the years
presented (dollars in thousands):
  2018 and 2019 Same Store Pool One Year Change 2017 and 2018 Same Store Pool One Year Change
  2019 2018  $  %  2018 2017 $  %
SSNOI(1)  $ 699,867 $ 701,493 $(1,626) -0.2 % $ 816,416 824,415 $(7,999) -1.0 %
 
(1) Relates to 341 properties for the 2018 and 2019 Same Store Pool and 390 properties for the 2017 and 2018 Same Store Pool.
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Seniors Housing Operating segment for the years presented
(dollars in thousands):
    Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
    December 31, December 31,   December 31,      
    2019 2018 $ %  2017  $  % $ %
Revenues:              
  Resident fees and services  $3,448,175 $3,234,852 $213,323 7 % $2,779,423 $455,429 16 % $668,752 24 %
  Interest income  36 578 (542) -94 % 69 509 738 % (33) -48 %
  Other income  8,658 5,024 3,634 72 % 5,127 (103) -2 % 3,531 69 %
  Total revenues  3,456,869 3,240,454 216,415 7 % 2,784,619 455,835 16 % 672,250 24 %
Property operating expenses  2,417,349 2,255,432 161,917 7 % 1,904,593 350,839 18 % 512,756 27 %
  NOI(1)  1,039,520 985,022 54,498 6 % 880,026 104,996 12 % 159,494 18 %
Other expenses:        
  Depreciation and amortization  553,189 529,449 23,740 4 % 484,796 44,653 9 % 68,393 14 %
  Interest expense  67,983 69,060 (1,077) -2 % 63,265 5,795 9 % 4,718 7 %
  Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 1,614 110 1,504 1,367 % 3,785 (3,675) -97 % (2,171) -57 %
  Impairment of assets  2,145 7,599 (5,454) -72 % 21,949 (14,350) -65 % (19,804) -90 %
  Other expenses  26,348 6,624 19,724 298 % 8,347 (1,723) -21 % 18,001 216 %
   651,279 612,842 38,437 6 % 582,142 30,700 5 % 69,137 12 %
Income (loss) from continuing operations
before income taxes and other items  388,241 372,180 16,061 4 % 297,884 74,296 25 % 90,357 30 %
Income tax benefit (expense)  6,246 1,202 5,044 420 % (16,430) 17,632 107 % 22,676 138 %
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities  12,388 (28,142) 40,530 144 % (105,236) 77,094 73 % 117,624 112 %
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net  528,747 (2,245) 530,992 23,652 % 56,295 (58,540) -104 % 472,452 839 %
Income from continuing operations  935,622 342,995 592,627 173 % 232,513 110,482 48 % 703,109 302 %
Net income (loss)  935,622 342,995 592,627 173 % 232,513 110,482 48 % 703,109 302 %
Less: Net income (loss) attributable to
noncontrolling interests  56,513 (660) 57,173 8,663 % 8,472 (9,132) -108 % 48,041 567 %
Net income (loss) attributable to common
stockholders  $ 879,109 $ 343,655 $535,454 156 % $ 224,041 $119,614 53 % $655,068 292 %
 (1) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.
Fluctuations in resident fees and services and property operating expenses are primarily a result of acquisitions, segment
transitions and the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates. The fluctuations in depreciation and amortization are
due to acquisitions and variations in amortization of short-lived intangible assets. To the extent that we acquire or dispose of
additional properties in the future, these amounts will change accordingly.
During the three years presented, we recorded impairment charges on certain held for sale and held for use properties as the
carrying value exceeded the estimated fair values. The fluctuations in gains (losses) on real estate dispositions are due to the
volume of property sales and sales prices. The significant gain on real estate dispositions recognized during the year ended
December 31, 2019 is related to the sale of the Benchmark Senior Living portfolio. Transaction costs related to asset acquisitions
are capitalized as a component of the purchase price. The increase in other expenses during the year ended December 31, 2019 is
primarily due to additional noncapitalizable transaction costs associated with acquisitions and operator transitions.
During the year ended December 31, 2019, we completed two Seniors Housing Operating construction projects representing
$28,117,000 or $109,405 per unit. The following is a summary of our Seniors Housing Operating construction projects, excluding
expansions, pending as of December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands):
48
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Location Units/Beds Commitment Balance Est. Completion
Wandsworth, UK 97 $ 78,221 $ 69,877 1Q20
Taylor , PA 113 14,272 12,405 1Q20
Beavercreek, OH 100 12,032 11,561 1Q20
Potomac, MD 120 56,720 23,145 4Q20
Beckenham, UK 100 62,497 27,423 3Q21
Hendon, UK 102 74,041 33,698 4Q21
Barnet, UK 100 68,335 28,499 4Q21
 732 $ 366,1 18 206,608  
Toronto, ON Project in planning stage 43,854
Washington, DC Project in planning stage 18,394
Brookline, MA Project in planning stage 17,382
  $ 268,873
 
Interest expense represents secured debt interest expense which fluctuates based on the net effect and timing of assumptions,
segment transitions, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The fluctuations in loss
(gain) on extinguishment of debt is primarily attributable to the volume of extinguishments and terms of the related secured debt. 
The following is a summary of our Seniors Housing Operating property secured debt principal activity (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended
 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
   Weighted Avg.   Weighted Avg.   Weighted Avg.
 Amount  Interest Rate Amount  Interest Rate Amount  Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 1,810,587 3.87% $ 1,988,700 3.66% $ 2,463,249 3.94%
Debt transferred in — —% 35,830 3.84% — —%
Debt issued 343,696 3.11% 45,447 3.40% 228,772 2.72%
Debt assumed 183,061 4.58% 121,612 5.55% — —%
Debt extinguished (219,864) 4.28% (240,095) 4.83% (668,804) 4.81%
Debt transferred out (12,072) 3.89% — —% — —%
Debt deconsolidated — —% — —% (60,000) 3.80%
Principal payments (43,997) 3.45% (47,886) 3.59% (47,153) 3.60%
Foreign currency 53,626 3.33% (93,021) 3.31% 72,636 3.23%
Ending balance $ 2,115,037 3.54% $ 1,810,587 3.87% $ 1,988,700 3.66%
Monthly averages $ 1,966,892 3.70% $ 1,915,663 3.74% $ 2,065,477 3.66%
The majority of our Seniors Housing Operating properties are formed through partnership interests. The increase in income (loss)
from unconsolidated entities are largely due to a gain on the disposition of an unconsolidated entity during the year ended
December 31, 2019. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income (loss) related to
joint ventures. The increase during the year ended December 31, 2019 relates primarily to our partner's share of the gain recognized
on the sale of the Benchmark Senior Living portfolio.
49
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Triple-net 
The following is a summary of our SSNOI for the Triple-net segment for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
  2018 and 2019 Same Store Pool One Year Change 2017 and 2018 Same Store Pool One Year Change
  2019 2018  $  % 2018  2017 $ %
SSNOI(1)  $ 516,340 $ 508,897 $7,443 1.5% $ 516,008 $ 508,257 $7,751 1.5%
 
(1) Relates to 368 properties for the 2018 and 2019 Same Store Pool and 366 properties for the 2017 and 2018 Same Store Pool.
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Triple-net segment for the years presented (dollars in thousands):
  Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
  December 31, December 31,  December 31,      
  2019 2018 $ % 2017 $  % $  %
Revenues:            
 Rental income $ 903,798 $ 828,865 $74,933 9 % $ 885,811 $(56,946) -6 % $17,987 2 %
 Interest income 62,599 54,926 7,673 14 % 73,742 (18,816) -26 % (11,143) -15 %
 Other income 6,246 17,173 (10,927) -64 % 7,531 9,642 128 % (1,285) -17 %
 Total revenues 972,643 900,964 71,679 8 % 967,084 (66,120) -7 % 5,559 1 %
 Property operating expenses 53,900 915 52,985 5,791 % — 915 n/a 53,900 n/a
 NOI(1) 918,743 900,049 18,694 2 % 967,084 (67,035) -7 % (48,341) -5 %
Other expenses:      
 Depreciation and amortization 232,626 235,480 (2,854) -1 % 243,830 (8,350) -3 % (11,204) -5 %
 Interest expense 12,892 14,225 (1,333) -9 % 15,194 (969) -6 % (2,302) -15 %
 Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial
instruments, net (4,399) (4,016) (383) -10 % 2,284 (6,300) -276 % (6,683) -293 %
 Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net — (32) 32 100 % 29,083 (29,115) -100 % (29,083) -100 %
 Provision for loan losses 18,690 — 18,690 n/a 62,966 (62,966) -100 % (44,276) -70 %
 Impairment of assets 11,926 107,980 (96,054) -89 % 96,909 11,071 11 % (84,983) -88 %
 Other expenses(2) 13,771 90,975 (77,204) -85 % 116,689 (25,714) -22 % (102,918) -88 %
  285,506 444,612 (159,106) -36 % 566,955 (122,343) -22 % (281,449) -50 %
Income from continuing operations before
income taxes and other items 633,237 455,437 177,800 39 % 400,129 55,308 14 % 233,108 58 %
Income tax benefit (expense) (4,209) 1,611 (5,820) -361 % (4,291) 5,902 138 % 82 2 %
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities 22,985 21,938 1,047 5 % 19,428 2,510 13 % 3,557 18 %
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 218,322 196,589 21,733 11 % 286,325 (89,736) -31 % (68,003) -24 %
Income from continuing operations 870,335 675,575 194,760 29 % 701,591 (26,016) -4 % 168,744 24 %
Net income 870,335 675,575 194,760 29 % 701,591 (26,016) -4 % 168,744 24 %
Less: Net income attributable to
noncontrolling interests 36,271 19,306 16,965 88 % 4,603 14,703 319 % 31,668 688 %
Net income attributable to common
stockholders $ 834,064 $ 656,269 $177,795 27 % $ 696,988 $(40,719) -6 % $137,076 20 %
 
(1) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.
(2) See Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements.
The increase to rental income for the year ended December 31, 2019 is primarily attributable to acquisitions including Quality
Care Properties ("QCP") in July 2018. In addition, we have recorded certain real estate property taxes on a gross basis, with the
offset to property operating expenses, as a result of our ASC 842 adoption on January 1, 2019. These increases are partially offset
by the disposition or segment transition of various properties. Certain of our leases contain annual rental escalators that are
contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) and/or changes in the gross operating revenues of the tenant’s
properties. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the
contractual cash rental payments due for the period. If gross operating revenues at our facilities and/or the CPI do not increase, a
portion of our revenues may not continue to increase. Our leases could renew above or below current rent rates, resulting in an
increase or decrease in rental income. For the three months ended December 31, 2019, we had 20 leases with rental rate increasers
ranging from 0.12% to 0.76% in our Triple-net portfolio. The increase in other income for the year ended December 31, 2018 is
primarily due to $10,805,000 of net lease termination fees recognized.
Depreciation and amortization decreased primarily as a result of the disposition of triple-net properties exceeding acquisition and
segment transitions. To the extent we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future, our provision for depreciation and
amortization will change accordingly.
During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized a provision for loan loss of $18,690,000 to fully reserve for and
eventually wrote off certain real estate loans receivable that are no longer deemed collectible.
50
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
During the years presented, we recorded impairment charges on certain held for sale and held for use properties as the carrying
value exceeded the estimated fair values. The fluctuations in gains on real estate dispositions are due to the volume of property
sales and sales prices. Transaction costs related to asset acquisitions are capitalized as a component of purchase price. The
fluctuations in other expenses is primarily due noncapitalizable transaction costs from acquisitions, segment transitions and the
termination/restructuring of preexisting relationships. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized $79,576,000
related to a joint venture transaction, including the conversion of properties from Triple-net to Seniors Housing Operating and
termination/restructuring of preexisting relationships.
During the year ended December 31, 2019, there were no construction projects completed. The following is a summary of Triple-
net construction projects, excluding expansions, pending as of December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands):
Location  Units/Beds Commitment Balance  Est. Completion
Union, KY  162 $ 34,600 $ 25,649 1Q20
Westerville, OH  102 22,800 19,922 1Q20
Droitwich, UK  70 16,805 11,730 2Q20
Thousand Oaks, CA  82 24,763 9,971 4Q20
Redhill, UK  76 21,098 6,287 1Q21
Leicester, UK  60 14,861 3,505 1Q21
Wombourne, UK  66 15,923 3,515 2Q21
Total  618 $ 150,850 $ 80,579  
 
Total interest expense represents secured debt interest expense and related fees. The change in secured debt interest expense is
due to the net effect and timing of assumptions, segment transitions, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, extinguishments and
principal amortizations. The fluctuations in loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt is primarily attributable to the volume of
extinguishments and terms of the related secured debt. The fluctuation in loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net is
primarily attributable to the mark-to-market adjustment recorded on our Genesis HealthCare available-for-sale investment. The
following is a summary of our Triple-net secured debt principal activity for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended
 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
   Weighted Avg.   Weighted Avg.   Weighted Avg.
 Amount  Interest Rate Amount  Interest Rate Amount  Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 288,386 3.63% $ 347,474 3.55% $ 594,199 4.58%
Debt transferred in 12,072 3.89% — —% — —%
Debt issued — —% — —% 13,000 4.57%
Debt extinguished — —% (4,107) 4.94% (274,048) 5.95%
Debt transferred out — —% (35,830) 3.84% — —%
Principal payments (4,017) 5.21% (3,982) 5.38% (5,863) 5.66%
Foreign currency 9,597 2.99% (15,169) 3.44% 20,186 2.91%
Ending balance $ 306,038 3.60% $ 288,386 3.63% $ 347,474 3.55%
Monthly averages $ 294,080 3.63% $ 321,730 3.51% $ 408,688 3.91%
 
A portion of our triple-net properties were formed through partnerships. Income or loss from unconsolidated entities represents
our share of net income or losses from partnerships where we are the noncontrolling partner. Net income attributable to
noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income relating to those partnerships where we are the controlling
partner.
Outpatient Medical 
The following is a summary of our SSNOI for the Outpatient Medical segment for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
  2018 and 2019 Same Store Pool One Year Change 2017 and 2018 Same Store Pool One Year Change
  2019  2018  $ %  2018  2017  $  %
SSNOI(1)  $ 311,612 $ 308,139 $3,473 1.1% $ 343,059 $ 336,990 $6,069 1.8%
(1) Relates to 197 properties for the 2018 and 2019 Same Store Pool and 224 properties for the 2017 and 2018 Same Store Pool.
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Outpatient Medical segment for the periods presented (dollars in
thousands): 
51
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
   Year Ended  One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
   December 31, December 31,    December 31,       
   2019 2018  $  % 2017  $  %  $ %
Revenues:                
 Rental income  $ 684,602 $ 551,557 $133,045 24 % $ 560,060 $(8,503) -2 % $124,542 22 %
 Interest income  1,195 310 885 285 % — 310 n/a 1,195 n/a
 Other income  2,031 4,939 (2,908) -59 % 3,340 1,599 48 % (1,309) -39 %
 Total revenues  687,828 556,806 131,022 24 % 563,400 (6,594) -1 % 124,428 22 %
Property operating expenses  218,793 176,670 42,123 24 % 179,332 (2,662) -1 % 39,461 22 %
 NOI(1)  469,035 380,136 88,899 23 % 384,068 (3,932) -1 % 84,967 22 %
Other expenses:             
 Depreciation and amortization  241,258 185,530 55,728 30 % 193,094 (7,564) -4 % 48,164 25 %
 Interest expense  13,411 7,051 6,360 90 % 10,015 (2,964) -30 % 3,396 34 %
 Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net — 11,928 (11,928) -100 % 4,373 7,555 173 % (4,373) -100 %
 Impairment of assets  14,062 — 14,062 n/a 5,625 (5,625) -100 % 8,437 150 %
 Other expenses  1,788 7,570 (5,782) -76 % 1,911 5,659 296 % (123) -6 %
   270,519 212,079 58,440 28 % 215,018 (2,939) -1 % 55,501 26 %
Income from continuing operations before
income taxes and other item  198,516 168,057 30,459 18 % 169,050 (993) -1 % 29,466 17 %
Income tax benefit (expense)  (2,710) (125) (2,585) -2,068 % (1,477) 1,352 92 % (1,233) -83 %
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities 7,061 5,563 1,498 27 % 2,683 2,880 107 % 4,378 163 %
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 972 221,231 (220,259) -100 % 1,630 219,601 13,472 % (658) -40 %
Income from continuing operations  203,839 394,726 (190,887) -48 % 171,886 222,840 130 % 31,953 19 %
Net income (loss)  203,839 394,726 (190,887) -48 % 171,886 222,840 130 % 31,953 19 %
Less: Net income (loss) attributable to
noncontrolling interests  5,194 6,150 (956) -16 % 4,765 1,385 29 % 429 9 %
Net income (loss) attributable to common
stockholders  $ 198,645 $ 388,576 $(189,931) -49 % $ 167,121 $221,455 133 % $31,524 19 %
 
(1) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.
The fluctuations in rental income are primarily attributable to the acquisitions of new properties and the conversion of newly
constructed outpatient medical properties, particularly the $1.25 billion CNL Healthcare Properties portfolio acquisition that closed
in May 2019, partially offset by dispositions. Certain of our leases contain annual rental escalators that are contingent upon changes
in the CPI. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the
contractual cash rental payments due for the period. If the CPI does not increase, a portion of our revenues may not continue to
increase. Our leases could renew above or below current rent rates, resulting in an increase or decrease in rental income. For the
three months ended December 31, 2019, our consolidated outpatient medical portfolio signed 193,173 square feet of new leases and
424,579 square feet of renewals. The weighted-average term of these leases was six years, with a rate of $31.95 per square foot and
tenant improvement and lease commission costs of $23.59 per square foot. Substantially all of these leases contain an annual fixed
or contingent escalation rent structure ranging from 2.0% to 3.5%.
The fluctuation in property operating expenses and depreciation and amortization are primarily attributable to acquisitions and
construction conversions of new outpatient medical facilities, offset by dispositions. To the extent that we acquire or dispose of
additional properties in the future, these amounts will change accordingly. We recognized impairment charges related to certain
held for sale properties as the carrying values exceeded the estimated fair values less costs to sell. Changes in gains/losses on sales
of properties are related to volume of property sales and the sales prices. 
During the year ended December 31, 2019, we completed one Outpatient Medical construction project representing $21,006,000
or $286 per square foot. The following is a summary of Outpatient Medical construction projects pending as of December 31, 2019
(dollars in thousands):
Location Square Feet  Commitment  Balance Est. Completion
Porter , TX 55,000  $ 20,800  $ 16,124 1Q20
Lowell, MA 50,668  11,900  10,288 1Q20
Katy , TX 36,500  12,028  3,251 2Q20
Brooklyn, NY 140,955  105,306  80,799 3Q20
Total 283,123  $ 150,034  $ 110,462  
 
Total interest expense represents secured debt interest expense. The change in secured debt interest expense is primarily due to
the net effect and timing of assumptions, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The fluctuations in loss (gain) on
extinguishment of debt is primarily attributable the volume of extinguishments and terms of the related secured debt. The following
is a summary of our Outpatient Medical secured debt principal activity for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
52
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended
 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
   Weighted Avg.   Weighted Avg.   Weighted Avg.
 Amount  Interest Rate Amount  Interest Rate Amount  Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 386,738 4.20% $ 279,951 4.72% $ 404,079 4.85%
Debt assumed 202,084 4.12% 171,275 3.99% 23,094 6.67%
Debt extinguished (10,244) 5.75% (61,291) 7.43% (137,416) 5.99%
Principal payments (6,311) 4.97% (3,197) 5.91% (9,806) 6.85%
Ending balance $ 572,267 3.97% $ 386,738 4.20% $ 279,951 4.72%
Monthly averages $ 397,756 4.15% $ 238,214 4.25% $ 294,694 4.62%
 
A portion of our Outpatient Medical properties were formed through partnerships. Income or loss from unconsolidated entities
represents our share of net income or losses from partnerships where we are the noncontrolling partner. Net income attributable to
noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income or loss relating to those partnerships where we are the
controlling partner.
Non-Segment/Corporate
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the non-segment/corporate activities (dollars in thousands):
   Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
   December 31, December 31,    December 31,       
   2019 2018 $  %  2017 $  %  $  %
Revenues:                
 Other income  $ 3,966 $ 2,275 $ 1,691 74 % $ 1,538 $ 737 48 % $ 2,428 158 %
Expenses:          
 Interest expense  461,273 436,256 25,017 6 % 396,148 40,108 10 % 65,125 16 %
 General and administrative expenses  126,549 126,383 166 0 % 122,008 4,375 4 % 4,541 4 %
 Loss (gain) on extinguishments of debt, net 82,541 4,091 78,450 1,918 % — 4,091 n/a 82,541 n/a
 Other expenses  10,705 7,729 2,976 39 % 50,829 (43,100) -85 % (40,124) -79 %
 Total expenses  681,068 574,459 106,609 19 % 568,985 5,474 1 % 112,083 20 %
Loss from continuing operations before
income taxes  (677,102) (572,184) (104,918) -18 % (567,447) (4,737) -1 % (109,655) -19 %
Income tax benefit (expense)  (2,284) (11,362) 9,078 80 % 2,070 (13,432) -649 % (4,354) -210 %
Loss from continuing operations  (679,386) (583,546) (95,840) -16 % (565,377) (18,169) -3 % (114,009) -20 %
Preferred stock dividends  — 46,704 (46,704) -100 % 49,410 (2,706) -5 % (49,410) -100 %
Preferred stock redemption charge  — — — n/a 9,769 (9,769) -100 % (9,769) -100 %
Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (679,386)$ (630,250)$(49,136) -8 % $ (624,556)$(5,694) -1 % $(54,830) -9 %
The following is a summary of our Non-Segment/Corporate interest expense for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
  Year Ended  One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
  December 31, December 31,    December 31,       
  2019 2018  $  % 2017 $  %  $ %
Senior unsecured notes  $ 402,133 $ 387,955 $14,178 4 % $ 364,773 $23,182 6 % $37,360 10 %
Secured debt  — 115 (115) -100 % 127 (12) -9 % (127) -100 %
Unsecured revolving credit
facility and commercial paper
program  43,861 34,626 9,235 27 % 17,863 16,763 94 % 25,998 146 %
Loan expense  15,279 13,560 1,719 13 % 13,385 175 1 % 1,894 14 %
Totals  $ 461,273 $ 436,256 $25,017 6 % $ 396,148 $40,108 10 % $65,125 16 %
 
The change in interest expense on senior unsecured notes is due to the net effect of issuances and extinguishments, as well as the
movement in foreign exchange rates and related hedge activity. Please refer to Note 11 to consolidated financial statements for
additional information. The change in interest expense on our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program is
due primarily to the net effect and timing of draws, paydowns and variable interest rate changes. Please refer to Note 10 of our
consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper
program. Loan expenses represent the amortization of costs incurred in connection with senior unsecured notes issuances. The loss
on extinguishment recognized in 2019 is due primarily to the early extinguishment of the $600,000,000 of 4.125% senior unsecured
notes due 2019 and the $450,000,000 of 6.125% senior unsecured notes due 2020 in March 2019, the early extinguishment of the
$450,000,000 of 4.95% senior unsecured notes due 2021 and the $600,000,000 of 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2022 in
September 2019 and the early redemption of the $300 million Canadian-denominated 3.35% senior unsecured notes due 2020 in
December 2019. The loss on extinguishment of debt in 2018 is due to the term loan facility drawn on in July 2018 and paid off in
August 2018.
53
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and
2017 were 2.47%, 2.69% and 2.83%, respectively. 
Other expenses for all years include severance-related costs associated with the departure of certain executive officers and key
employees. 
The decrease in preferred dividends is due to the conversion of all outstanding Series I Cumulative Convertible Perpetual
Preferred Stock during the year ended December 31, 2019.
Other
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders (“NICS”), as defined by U.S. GAAP, are the
most appropriate earnings measurements. However, we consider FFO, NOI, SSNOI, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to be useful
supplemental measures of our operating performance. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S.
GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for
depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and
analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be
insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) created funds from operations
attributable to common stockholders (“FFO”) as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes
historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means NICS, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP,
excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate and impairment of depreciable assets, plus depreciation and amortization, and
after adjustments for unconsolidated entities and noncontrolling interests.
Consolidated net operating income (“NOI”) is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties. We define NOI as
total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating expenses. Property operating expenses represent costs
associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for our properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to,
property-related payroll and benefits, property management fees paid to operators, marketing, housekeeping, food service,
maintenance, utilities, property taxes and insurance. General and administrative expenses represent costs unrelated to property
operations. These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and benefits, professional services, office expenses and
depreciation of corporate fixed assets. Same store NOI (“SSNOI”) is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties
using a consistent population which controls for changes in the composition of our portfolio. As used herein, same store is
generally defined as those revenue-generating properties in the portfolio for the eight quarters ended December 31, 2019 ("2018
and 2019 Same Store Pool") and December 31, 2018 ("2017 and 2018 Same Store Pool"). Land parcels, loans and sub-leases, as
well as any properties acquired, under development, transitioned to a different segment, sold or classified as held for sale during
that period are excluded from the same store amounts. Additionally, unconsolidated properties are excluded from the same store
amounts. We believe NOI and SSNOI provide investors relevant and useful information because they measure the operating
performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI and SSNOI to make decisions about
resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties.
EBITDA stands for earnings (net income) before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We believe that EBITDA, along
with net income and cash flow provided from operating activities, is an important supplemental measure because it provides
additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of our operations. We primarily utilize EBITDA to measure our
interest coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA divided by total interest, and our fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents
EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest, secured debt principal amortization, and preferred
dividends. Covenants in our senior unsecured notes and primary unsecured credit facility contain financial ratios based on a
definition of EBITDA that is specific to those agreements. Failure to satisfy these covenants could result in an event of default that
could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on
our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. Due to the materiality of these debt agreements and the
financial covenants, we have disclosed Adjusted EBITDA, which represents EBITDA as defined above excluding unconsolidated
entities and adjusted for items per our covenant. We use Adjusted EBITDA to measure our adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio,
which represents Adjusted EBITDA divided by fixed charges on a trailing twelve months basis. Fixed charges include total interest
(excluding capitalized interest and non-cash interest expenses), secured debt principal amortization and preferred dividends. Our
covenant requires an adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.50 times.
Our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt
analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Management uses
these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical operating results and in making operating
decisions. Additionally, these measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. None of our supplemental
measures represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and
should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental measures, as defined by us,
may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies.
54
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The table below reflects the reconciliation of FFO to NICS, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods
presented. Noncontrolling interest and unconsolidated entity amounts represent adjustments to reflect our share of depreciation and
amortization, gains/loss on real estate dispositions and impairments of assets. Amounts are in thousands except for per share data.
 Year Ended December 31,
FFO Reconciliation: 2019 2018  2017
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 1,232,432 $ 758,250  $ 463,595
Depreciation and amortization 1,027,073 950,459  921,720
Impairment of assets 28,133 115,579  124,483
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (748,041 ) (415,575 ) (344,250 )
Noncontrolling interests (20,197 ) (69,193 ) (60,018 )
Unconsolidated entities 57,680 52,663  60,046
Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders $ 1,577,080 $ 1,392,183  $ 1,165,576
Average diluted shares outstanding: 403,808 375,250  369,001
Per diluted share data:     
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 3.05 $ 2.02  $ 1.26
Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders $ 3.91 $ 3.71 $ 3.16
 
The table below reflects the reconciliation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable U.S.
GAAP measure, for the periods presented. Dollars are in thousands.
 Year Ended December 31,
Adjusted EBITDA  Reconciliation: 2019 2018  2017
Net income $ 1,330,410 $ 829,750  $ 540,613
Interest expense 555,559 526,592  484,622
Income tax expense (benefit) 2,957 8,674  20,128
Depreciation and amortization 1,027,073 950,459  921,720
EBITDA 2,915,999 2,315,475 1,967,083
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities (42,434 ) 641  83,125
Stock-based compensation expense(1)25,047 27,646  19,102
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 84,155 16,097  37,241
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (748,041 ) (415,575 ) (344,250 )
Impairment of assets 28,133 115,579  124,483
Provision for loan losses 18,690 — 62,966
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net (4,399 ) (4,016 ) 2,284
Other expenses(1)51,052 111,990  176,395
Additional other income — (14,832 ) —
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,328,202 $ 2,153,005 $ 2,128,429
Adjusted Inter est Coverage Ratio:     
Interest expense $ 555,559 $ 526,592  $ 484,622
Capitalized interest 15,272 7,905  13,489
Non-cash interest expense (8,645 ) (10,860 ) (10,359 )
Total interest 562,186 523,637 487,752
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,328,202 $ 2,153,005 $ 2,128,429
Adjusted interest coverage ratio 4.14x 4.11x 4.36x
Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio:     
Total interest $ 562,186 $ 523,637  $ 487,752
Secured debt principal payments 54,325 56,288  64,078
Preferred dividends — 46,704  49,410
Total fixed char ges 616,51 1 626,629 601,240
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,328,202 $ 2,153,005 $ 2,128,429
Adjusted fixed char ge coverage ratio 3.78x 3.44x 3.54x
 
(1) Certain severance-related costs are included in stock-based compensation and excluded from other expenses.
55
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Our leverage ratios include book capitalization, undepreciated book capitalization and market capitalization. Book capitalization
represents the sum of net debt (defined as total long-term debt less cash and cash equivalents and any IRC section 1031 deposits),
total equity and redeemable noncontrolling interests. Undepreciated book capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for
accumulated depreciation and amortization. Market capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for the fair market value
of our common stock. Our leverage ratios are defined as the proportion of net debt to total capitalization. The table below reflects
the reconciliation of our leverage ratios to our balance sheets for the periods presented. Amounts are in thousands, except share
price.
    Year Ended December 31,
    2019  2018  2017
Book capitalization:       
Unsecured credit facility and commercial paper  $ 1,587,597  $ 1,147,000  $ 719,000
Long-term debt obligations(1) 13,436,365  12,150,144  11,012,936
Cash and cash equivalents(2) (284,917 ) (215,376 ) (249,620 )
Total net debt  14,739,045  13,081,768 11,482,316
Total equity and noncontrolling interests(3) 16,982,504  16,010,645  15,300,646
Book capitalization  $ 31,721,549  $ 29,092,413 $ 26,782,962
  Net debt to book capitalization ratio  46.5% 45.0% 42.9%
Undepr eciated book capitalization:       
Total net debt  $ 14,739,045  $ 13,081,768  $ 11,482,316
Accumulated depreciation and amortization  5,715,459  5,499,958  4,838,370
Total equity and noncontrolling interests(3) 16,982,504  16,010,645  15,300,646
Undepreciated book capitalization  $ 37,437,008  $ 34,592,371 $ 31,621,332
  Net debt to undepreciated book capitalization ratio  39.4% 37.8% 36.3%
Market capitalization:       
Common shares outstanding  410,257  383,675  371,732
Period end share price  $ 81.78  $ 69.41  $ 63.77
Common equity market capitalization  $ 33,550,817  $ 26,630,882  $ 23,705,350
Total net debt  14,739,045  13,081,768  11,482,316
Noncontrolling interests(3) 1,442,060  1,378,31 1 877,499
Preferred stock  —  718,498  718,503
Market capitalization:  $ 49,731,922  $ 41,809,459 $ 36,783,668
  Net debt to market capitalization ratio  29.6% 31.3% 31.2%
 
(1) Amounts include senior unsecured notes, secured debt and lease liabilities related to financing leases, as reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(2) Inclusive of IRC section 1031 deposits, if any.
(3) Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests as reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The following tables reflect the reconciliation of NOI to net income, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the
years presented. Dollar amounts are in thousands.
 Year Ended December 31,
NOI Reconciliation: 2019  2018 2017
Net income $ 1,330,410  $ 829,750 $ 540,613
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (748,041 ) (415,575 ) (344,250 )
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities (42,434 ) 641 83,125
Income tax expense (benefit) 2,957  8,674 20,128
Other expenses 52,612  112,898 177,776
Impairment of assets 28,133  115,579 124,483
Provision for loan losses 18,690  — 62,966
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 84,155  16,097 37,241
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net (4,399 ) (4,016 ) 2,284
General and administrative expenses 126,549  126,383 122,008
Depreciation and amortization 1,027,073  950,459 921,720
Interest expense 555,559  526,592 484,622
Consolidated net operating income (NOI) $ 2,431,264  $ 2,267,482 $ 2,232,716
NOI by segment:     
Seniors Housing Operating $ 1,039,520  $ 985,022 $ 880,026
Triple-net 918,743  900,049 967,084
Outpatient Medical 469,035  380,136 384,068
Non-segment/corporate 3,966  2,275 1,538
Total NOI $ 2,431,264  $ 2,267,482 $ 2,232,716
56
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following is a reconciliation of our consolidated NOI to same store NOI for the periods presented for the respective pools.
Dollar amounts are in thousands.
 2018 and 2019 Same Store Pool 2017 and 2018 Same Store Pool
SSNOI Reconciliations: 2019 2018 2018 2017
NOI:  
Seniors Housing Operating $ 1,039,520 $ 985,022 $ 985,022 $ 880,026
Triple-net 918,743 900,049 900,049 967,084
Outpatient Medical 469,035 380,136 380,136 384,068
Total 2,427,298 2,265,207 2,265,207 2,231,178
Adjustments:   
Seniors Housing Operating:   
Non-cash SSNOI on same store properties (1,720 ) (1,344 ) (1,176 ) (1,542 )
NOI attributable to non same store
properties (337,933 ) (282,185 ) (167,430 ) (54,069 )
Subtotal (339,653 ) (283,529 ) (168,606 ) (55,61 1)
Triple-net:   
Non-cash SSNOI on same store properties 28,033 25,981 17,057 23,970
NOI attributable to non same store
properties (430,436 ) (417,133 ) (401,098 ) (482,797 )
Subtotal (402,403 ) (391,152 ) (384,041 ) (458,827 )
Outpatient Medical:   
Non-cash SSNOI on same store properties 7,067 7,224 9,551 9,576
NOI attributable to non same store
properties (164,490 ) (79,221 ) (46,628 ) (56,654 )
Subtotal (157,423 ) (71,997 ) (37,077 ) (47,078 )
SSNOI:   
Seniors Housing Operating 699,867 701,493 816,416 824,415
Triple-net 516,340 508,897 516,008 508,257
Outpatient Medical 311,612 308,139 343,059 336,990
Total $ 1,527,819 $ 1,518,529 $ 1,675,483 $ 1,669,662
 2018 and 2019 Same Store Pool 2017 and 2018 Same Store Pool
SSNOI Property
Reconciliations:  Seniors Housing
Operating  Triple-net Outpatient
Medical TotalSeniors Housing
Operating Triple-net Outpatient
Medical Total
Total properties  533 658 387 1,578 501 726 281 1,508
Recent
acquisitions/development
    conversions  (77) (237) (138) (452) (26) (246) (44) (316)
Developments  (11) (7) (4) (22) (4) (9) (4) (17)
Held for sale  (18) (11) (42) (71) (13) (40) (2) (55)
Segment transitions  (86) (18) — (104) (68) (44) — (112)
Loans, land parcels and
subleases(1)  — (17) (6) (23) — (21) (7) (28)
Same store properties  341 368 197 906 390 366 224 980
(1) Includes eight land parcels, eight subleases and seven loans for the 2018 and 2019 Same Store Pool and nine land parcels, eight subleases and 11 loans for the
2017 and 2018 Same Store Pool.
Critical Accounting Policies
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and
assumptions. Management considers accounting estimates or assumptions critical if:
•the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account
for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change; and
•the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material.
Management has discussed the development and selection of its critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the
Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosure presented below relating to them. Management believes
the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements are
appropriate and are not reasonably likely to change in the future. However, since these estimates require assumptions to be made
that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made, they bear the risk of change. If actual experience differs from the
assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements, the resulting
changes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. Please
refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact us and
for the impact of new accounting standards, including accounting pronouncements that were issued but not yet adopted by us.
The following table presents information about our critical accounting policies, as well as the material assumptions used to
develop each estimate:
57
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Nature of Critical
Accounting EstimateAssumptions/Approach
Used
Impairment of Real Property
Assessing impairment of real property involves subjectivity in
determining if indicators of impairment are present and in
estimating the future undiscounted cash flows or estimated
fair value of an asset. In estimating the undiscounted cash
flows or fair value, key assumptions that would be made are
the estimation of future rental revenues, operating expenses,
capitalization rates and the ability and intent to hold the
respective asset, all of which are affected by our expectations
of future market or economic conditions. These estimates can
have a significant impact on the undiscounted cash flows or
estimated fair value of an asset.Quarterly, we evaluate our real estate investments on a property by
property basis to determine if there are indicators of impairment.
These indicators may include expected operational performance,
the tenant's ability to make rent payments, a decision to dispose of
an asset before the end of its estimated useful life and changes in
the market that may permanently reduce the value of the property.
If indicators of impairment exist, an undiscounted cash flow
analysis will be prepared and the results of such analysis will be
compared to the current net book value to determine if an
impairment charge is necessary. This analysis requires us to use
judgment in determining whether indicators of impairment exist
and to estimate the expected future undiscounted cash flows or
estimated fair values of the property. Properties that meet the held
for sale criteria are recorded at the lesser of the fair value less costs
to sell or carrying value.
Real Estate Acquisitions
We believe that substantially all of our real estate acquisitions
are considered asset acquisitions for which we record the
related real estate acquired (tangible assets and identifiable
intangible assets and liabilities) at cost on a relative fair value
basis. Liabilities assumed and any associated noncontrolling
interests are reflected at fair value. Tangible assets consist
primarily of land, building and improvements. Identifiable
intangible assets and liabilities primarily consist of the above
or below market component of in-place leases and the value
of in-place leases. The total amount of other intangible assets
acquired is further allocated to in-place lease values and
customer relationship values based on management's
evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant's lease
and our overall relationship with respect to that tenant. 
The allocation of the purchase price to the related real estate
acquired (tangible assets and intangible assets and liabilities)
involves subjectivity as such allocations are based on a relative fair
value analysis. In determining the fair values that drive such
analysis, we estimate the fair value of each component of the real
estate acquired which generally includes land, buildings and
improvements, the above or below market component of in-place
leases and the value of in-place leases. Significant assumptions
used to determine such fair values include comparable land sales,
capitalization rates, discount rates, market rental rates and property
operating data, all of which can be impacted by expectations about
future market or economic conditions. Our estimates of the values
of these components affect the amount of depreciation and
amortization we record over the estimated useful life of the
property or the term of the lease.
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include our accounts,
the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and the
accounts of joint venture entities in which we own a majority
voting interest with the ability to control operations and
where no substantive participating rights or substantive kick
out rights have been granted to the noncontrolling interests. In
addition, we consolidate those entities deemed to be variable
interest entities (“VIEs”) in which we are determined to be
the primary beneficiary. All material intercompany
transactions and balances have been eliminated in
consolidation. 
We make judgments about which entities are VIEs based on an
assessment of whether (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do
not have a controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity
investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities
without additional subordinated financial support. We make
judgments with respect to our level of influence or control of an
entity and whether we are (or are not) the primary beneficiary of a
VIE. Consideration of various factors includes, but is not limited
to, our ability to direct the activities that most significantly impact
the entity's economic performance, our form of ownership interest,
our representation on the entity's governing body, the size and
seniority of our investment, our ability and the rights of other
investors to participate in policy making decisions, replace the
manager and/or liquidate the entity, if applicable. Our ability to
correctly assess our influence or control over an entity at inception
of our involvement or on a continuous basis when determining the
primary beneficiary of a VIE affects the presentation of these
entities in our consolidated financial statements. If we perform a
primary beneficiary analysis at a date other than at inception of the
VIE, our assumptions may be different and may result in the
identification of a different primary beneficiary.
58
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Nature of Critical
Accounting EstimateAssumptions/Approach
Used
Allowance for Loan Losses
The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level
believed adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans
receivable. The determination of the allowance is based on a
quarterly evaluation of all outstanding loans. If this evaluation
indicates that there is a greater risk of loan charge-offs,
additional allowances or placement on non-accrual status may
be required. A loan is impaired when, based on current
information and events, it is probable that we will be unable
to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to the
contractual terms of the original loan agreement or if it has
been modified in a troubled debt restructuring. Consistent
with this definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed
impaired. To the extent circumstances improve and the risk of
collectability is diminished, we will return these loans to
income accrual status. 
The determination of the allowance is based on a quarterly
evaluation of all outstanding loans, including general economic
conditions and estimated collectability of loan payments. We
evaluate the collectability of our loans receivable based on a
combination of factors, including, but not limited to, delinquency
status, historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the
borrower and guarantors, and value of the underlying collateral.
Any loans with collectability concerns are subjected to a projected
payoff valuation. The valuation is based on the expected future
cash flows and/or the estimated fair value of the underlying
collateral. The valuation is compared to the outstanding balance to
determine the reserve needed for each loan. We may base our
valuation on the fair value of collateral, net of sales costs, if the
repayment of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the
collateral.
59
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rates. We seek to mitigate the underlying foreign currency exposures with gains and losses on derivative
contracts hedging these exposures. We seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new
investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. We may or may not elect to use financial derivative
instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate
investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our
perception of the future volatility of interest rates. This section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with
potential fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. For more information, see Notes 12 and 17 to our
consolidated financial statements.
We historically borrow on our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program to acquire, construct or make
loans relating to health care and seniors housing properties. Then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term
fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program. We are subject
to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of
refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. The majority of our borrowings were completed under
indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. Accordingly, in the event that we are
unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be
limited.
A change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. Interest rate changes, however,
will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. Changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could
have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable
rate debt or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. To illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate markets, we performed a
sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a
hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the instruments’ change in fair value. The following table summarizes the
analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands):
 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
 Principal balance Change in fair value Principal balance Change in fair value
Senior unsecured notes $ 9,724,691 $ (751,848 )$ 9,009,159 $ (548,558 )
Secured debt 1,814,229 (69,756 ) 1,639,983 (59,522 )
Totals $ 11,538,920 $ (821,604 )$ 10,649,142 $ (608,080 )
 
Our variable rate debt, including our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, is reflected at fair value.
At December 31, 2019, we had $3,470,584,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. Assuming no changes in outstanding
balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $34,706,000. At December 31, 2018,
we had $2,683,553,000 outstanding under our variable rate debt. Assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in
interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $26,836,000.
We are subject to currency fluctuations that may, from time to time, affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Increases or decreases in the value of the Canadian Dollar or British Pounds Sterling relative to the U.S. Dollar impact the amount
of net income we earn from our investments in Canada and the United Kingdom. Based solely on our results for the year ended
December 31, 2019, including the impact of existing hedging arrangements, if these exchange rates were to increase or decrease by
10%, our net income from these investments would increase or decrease, as applicable, by less than $13,000,000. We will continue
to mitigate these underlying foreign currency exposures with non-U.S. denominated borrowings and gains and losses on derivative
contracts. If we increase our international presence through investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and
health care properties outside the U.S., we may also decide to transact additional business or borrow funds in currencies other than
U.S. Dollars, Canadian Dollars or British Pounds Sterling. To illustrate the impact of changes in foreign currency markets, we
performed a sensitivity analysis on our derivative portfolio whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a
hypothetical 1% increase in foreign currency exchange rates to determine the instruments’ change in fair value.  The following
table summarizes the results of the analysis performed, excluding cross currency hedge activity (dollars in thousands):
  December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
  Carrying value  Change in fair value Carrying value Change in fair value
Foreign currency exchange contracts  $ 26,767  $ 12,136 $ 23,620 $ 16,163
Debt designated as hedges  1,586,1 16 15,861 1,559,159 15,592
Totals  $ 1,612,883 $ 27,997 $ 1,582,779 $ 31,755
60
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Welltower Inc. 
Opinion on the Financial Statements 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of
December 31, 2019 and 2018, the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, and the related notes and financial statement schedules listed in the Index at
Item 15(a) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2019 and 2018 and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)
(PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on criteria established in
Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(2013 framework) and our report dated February 14, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Adoption of New Accounting Standard
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for leases
effective January 1, 2019.
Basis for Opinion 
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are
required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules
and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error
or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements,
whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test
basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the
financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that
were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are
material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The
communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a
whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters
or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
Impairment of Real Property
Description of the Matter At December 31, 2019, the Company’s net real property owned was approximately $30.3 billion. As
discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company reviews its real property
quarterly on a property-by-property basis to determine if facts and circumstances suggest that the
real property may be impaired. If the undiscounted cash flows indicate that the real property will not
be recoverable, the carrying value of the real property is reduced to its estimated fair value and an
impairment charge is recognized for the difference between the carrying value and the fair value.
Auditing the Company’s process to evaluate real property owned for impairment was complex due
to the high degree of subjectivity in determining whether indicators of impairment were present for
certain properties, and in determining the future undiscounted cash flows and estimated fair values,
if necessary, of properties where indicators of impairment were determined to be present. In
particular, the undiscounted cash flows and fair value estimates were sensitive to significant
assumptions, including future rental revenues and operating expenses, capitalization rates, and
anticipated hold period, which are affected by expectations about future market or economic
conditions.
61
How We Addressed the
Matter in Our Audit
We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design, and tested the operating effectiveness of
controls over the Company’s process to evaluate real property owned for impairment. This included
testing controls over the Company’s review of impairment indicators by property and management's
review and approval of the significant assumptions described above.
To test the Company's evaluation of real property for impairment, we performed audit procedures
that included, among others, assessing the methodologies used by management, evaluating the
significant assumptions discussed above and testing the completeness and accuracy of the
underlying data used by the Company in its analyses. We compared the significant assumptions
used by management to current industry and economic trends and evaluated whether changes to the
Company’s business and other relevant factors would affect the significant assumptions. In addition,
we assessed the historical accuracy of the Company’s estimates and performed sensitivity analyses
of the significant assumptions to evaluate the changes in the undiscounted future cash flows and
estimated fair values of the property that would result from changes in the significant assumptions.
Real Estate Acquisitions
Description of the Matter During 2019, the Company completed approximately $4.0 billion of real estate acquisitions. As
disclosed in Note 3 of the consolidated financial statements, the total purchase price for all
properties acquired has been allocated to the related real estate acquired (tangible assets and
identifiable intangible assets and liabilities) based upon their relative fair values.
Auditing the fair values allocated by management to the real estate acquired was complex because
the fair value estimates were sensitive to significant assumptions, including comparable land sales,
capitalization rates, discount rates, market rental rates and property operating data, which can be
impacted by expectations about future market or economic conditions.
How We
Addressed the
Matter in Our
Audit
We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design, and tested the operating effectiveness of
controls over the Company’s process to account for real estate acquisitions, including controls over
the Company’s review of the significant assumptions discussed above.
To test the fair values allocated to the real estate acquired, we performed audit procedures that
included, among others, assessing the methodologies used by management and evaluating the
significant assumptions used by the Company discussed above. We compared certain of
management’s assumptions to external market data for similar properties and tested the clerical
accuracy of the valuation models. We involved our valuation specialist in our evaluation of the
significant assumptions used by the Company and the review of the valuation models.
/s/  Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1970.
Toledo, Ohio
February 14, 2020
62
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(in thousands)
  December 31,
2019  December 31,
2018
Assets   
Real estate investments:     
Real property owned:     
Land and land improvements  $ 3,486,620  $ 3,205,091
Buildings and improvements  29,163,305  28,019,502
Acquired lease intangibles  1,617,051  1,581,159
Real property held for sale, net of accumulated depreciation  1,253,008  590,271
Construction in progress  507,931  194,365
Gross real property owned  36,027,915  33,590,388
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization  (5,715,459 ) (5,499,958 )
Net real property owned  30,312,456  28,090,430
Right of use assets, net  536,433  —
Real estate loans receivable, net of allowance  270,382  330,339
Net real estate investments  31,119,271  28,420,769
Other assets:   
Investments in unconsolidated entities  583,423  482,914
Goodwill  68,321  68,321
Cash and cash equivalents  284,917  215,376
Restricted cash  100,849  100,753
Straight-line receivable  466,222  367,093
Receivables and other assets  757,748  686,846
Total other assets  2,261,480  1,921,303
Total assets  $ 33,380,751  $ 30,342,072
Liabilities and equity   
Liabilities:   
Unsecured credit facility and commercial paper  $ 1,587,597  $ 1,147,000
Senior unsecured notes  10,336,513  9,603,299
Secured debt  2,990,962  2,476,177
Lease liabilities  473,693  70,668
Accrued expenses and other liabilities  1,009,482  1,034,283
Total liabilities  16,398,247  14,331,427
Redeemable noncontrolling interests  475,877  424,046
Equity:   
Preferred stock  — 718,498
Common stock  411,005  384,465
Capital in excess of par value  20,190,107  18,424,368
Treasury stock  (78,955 ) (68,499 )
Cumulative net income  7,353,966  6,121,534
Cumulative dividends  (12,223,534 ) (10,818,557 )
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)  (112,157 ) (129,769 )
Other equity  12 294
Total Welltower Inc. stockholders’  equity  15,540,444  14,632,334
Noncontrolling interests  966,183  954,265
Total equity  16,506,627  15,586,599
Total liabilities and equity  $ 33,380,751  $ 30,342,072
 
See accompanying notes
63
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(In thousands, except per share data)
 Year Ended December 31,
 2019  2018 2017
Revenues:    
Resident fees and services $ 3,448,175  $ 3,234,852 $ 2,779,423
Rental income 1,588,400  1,380,422 1,445,871
Interest income 63,830  55,814 73,81 1
Other income 20,901  29,41 1 17,536
Total revenues 5,121,306  4,700,499 4,316,641
Expenses:    
Property operating expenses 2,690,042  2,433,017 2,083,925
Depreciation and amortization 1,027,073  950,459 921,720
Interest expense 555,559  526,592 484,622
General and administrative expenses 126,549  126,383 122,008
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net (4,399 ) (4,016 ) 2,284
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 84,155  16,097 37,241
Provision for loan losses 18,690  — 62,966
Impairment of assets 28,133  115,579 124,483
Other expenses 52,612  112,898 177,776
Total expenses 4,578,414  4,277,009 4,017,025
Income from continuing operations before income taxes and other items 542,892  423,490 299,616
Income tax (expense) benefit (2,957 ) (8,674 ) (20,128 )
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities 42,434  (641) (83,125 )
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 748,041  415,575 344,250
Income (loss) from continuing operations 1,330,410  829,750 540,613
Net income 1,330,410  829,750 540,613
Less:  Preferred stock dividends — 46,704 49,410
Less:  Preferred stock redemption char ge — — 9,769
Less:  Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests(1)97,978  24,796 17,839
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 1,232,432  $ 758,250 $ 463,595
Average number of common shares outstanding:    
Basic 401,845  373,620 367,237
Diluted 403,808  375,250 369,001
Earnings per share:    
Basic:    
Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 3.31  $ 2.22 $ 1.47
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 3.07  $ 2.03 $ 1.26
Diluted:    
Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 3.29  $ 2.21 $ 1.47
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 3.05  $ 2.02 $ 1.26
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests
See accompanying notes
64
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (CONTINUED)
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(In thousands)
 Year Ended December 31,
 2019  2018 2017
Net income $ 1,330,410  $ 829,750 $ 540,613
Other comprehensive income (loss):    
Reclassification adjustment for write down of equity
investment — — (5,120 )
Unrecognized actuarial gain (loss) 540  344 269
Foreign currency translation gain (loss) 161,915  (253,022 ) 337,433
Derivative and financial instruments designated as
hedges gain (loss) (131,120 ) 211,390 (252,168 )
Total other comprehensive income (loss) 31,335  (41,288 ) 80,414
Total comprehensive income (loss) 1,361,745  788,462 621,027
Less: Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to
noncontrolling interests(1)111,701  1,812 40,187
Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 1,250,044  $ 786,650 $ 580,840
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests.
See accompanying notes
65
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(in thousands)          Accumulated    
     Capital in     Other    
  Preferred  Common Excess of  Treasury Cumulative Cumulative Comprehensive Other Noncontrolling  
  Stock  Stock Par Value  Stock Net Income Dividends Income (Loss) Equity Interests Total
Balances at
December 31, 2016  $1,006,250  $ 363,071 $16,999,691  $ (54,741 ) $4,803,575 $(8,144,981 ) $ (169,531 ) $ 3,059 $ 475,079 $15,281,472
Comprehensive
income:       
Net income
(loss)    522,774 20,819 543,593
Other
comprehensive
income (loss)     58,066 22,348 80,414
Total
comprehensive
income      624,007
Net change in
noncontrolling
interests   13,473   (15,941 ) (2,468 )
Amounts related to
issuance of common
stock      
from dividend
reinvestment
and stock      
incentive
plans, net of
forfeitures   402 21,494  (9,807 ) (2,399 ) 9,690
Net proceeds from
issuance of common
stock   8,881 612,555    621,436
Redemption of
equity membership
units   91 5,465  (11)  5,545
Redemption of
preferred stock  (287,500 ) 9,760  (9,769 )  (287,509 )
Conversion of
preferred stock  (247) 4 243   —
Option
compensation
expense     10 10
Dividends paid:      
Common
stock
dividends     (1,277,321 )  (1,277,321 )
Preferred
stock
dividends     (49,410 )  (49,410 )
Balances at
December 31, 2017  718,503  372,449 17,662,681  (64,559 ) 5,316,580 (9,471,712 ) (111,465 ) 670 502,305 14,925,452
Comprehensive
income:       
Net income
(loss)    804,954 25,065 830,019
Other
comprehensive
income (loss)     (18,304 ) (22,984 ) (41,288 )
Total
comprehensive
income      788,731
Net change in
noncontrolling
interests   (43,101 )  449,879 406,778
Amounts related to
issuance of common
stock       
from dividend
reinvestment
and stock       
incentive
plans, net of
forfeitures   188 28,277  (3,940 ) (376) 24,149
Net proceeds from
issuance of common
stock   11,828 776,506    788,334
Conversion of
preferred stock  (5) 5   —
Dividends paid:       
Common
stock
dividends     (1,300,141 )  (1,300,141 )
Preferred
stock
dividends     (46,704 )  (46,704 )
Balances at
December 31, 2018  718,498  384,465 18,424,368  (68,499 ) 6,121,534 (10,818,557 ) (129,769 ) 294 954,265 15,586,599
Comprehensive
income:       
Net income
(loss)    1,232,432 67,365 1,299,797
Other
comprehensive
income (loss)     17,612 13,440 31,052
Total
comprehensive
income      1,330,849
Net change in
noncontrolling
interests   3,583   (68,887 ) (65,304 )
Amounts related to
issuance of common
stock       
from dividend
reinvestment
and stock       
incentive
plans, net of
forfeitures   162 25,445  (10,456 ) (282) 14,869
Net proceeds from
issuance of common
stock   13,666 1,030,925    1,044,591
Conversion of
preferred stock  (718,498 ) 12,712 705,786    —
Dividends paid:       
Common
stock
dividends     (1,404,977 )  (1,404,977 )
Balances at
December 31, 2019  $ — $ 411,005 $20,190,107  $ (78,955 ) $7,353,966 $(12,223,534 ) $ (112,157 ) $ 12 $ 966,183 $16,506,627
 
See accompanying notes
66
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(in thousands)
  Year Ended December 31,
  2019  2018 2017
Operating activities:   
Net income  $ 1,330,410 $ 829,750 $ 540,613
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided from (used in) operating   
activities:   
Depreciation and amortization  1,027,073 950,459 921,720
Other amortization expenses  16,827 17,000 16,521
Provision for loan losses  18,690 — 62,966
Impairment of assets  28,133 115,579 124,483
Stock-based compensation expense  25,047 27,646 19,102
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net  (4,399) (4,016) 2,284
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net  84,155 16,097 37,241
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities  (42,434) 641 83,125
Rental income in excess of cash received  (106,331) (32,857) (80,398)
Amortization related to above (below) market leases, net  (676) 2,608 357
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net  (748,041) (415,575) (344,250)
Distributions by unconsolidated entities  — 21 116
Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other liabilities  (29,068) 70,762 26,811
Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets  (63,418) 5,829 23,486
Net cash provided from (used in) operating activities  1,535,968 1,583,944 1,434,177
Investing activities:   
Cash disbursed for acquisitions, net of cash acquired  (3,959,683) (3,560,360) (805,264)
Cash disbursed for capital improvements to existing properties  (328,824) (266,183) (250,276)
Cash disbursed for construction in progress  (323,488) (160,706) (232,715)
Capitalized interest  (15,272) (7,905) (13,489)
Investment in loans receivable  (119,699) (112,048) (101,216)
Principal collected on loans receivable  127,706 203,935 214,980
Other investments, net of payments  (8,282) (44,535) (44,094)
Contributions to unconsolidated entities  (279,631) (136,854) (114,365)
Distributions by unconsolidated entities  216,231 90,916 70,287
Proceeds from (payments on) derivatives  (8,499) 65,399 52,719
Proceeds from sales of real property  2,650,650 1,541,870 1,378,014
Net cash provided from (used in) investing activities  (2,048,791) (2,386,471) 154,581
Financing activities:   
Net increase (decrease) under unsecured credit facility and commercial paper  440,597 428,000 74,000
Proceeds from issuance of senior unsecured notes  3,974,559 2,824,176 7,500
Payments to extinguish senior unsecured notes  (3,335,290) (1,450,000) (5,000)
Net proceeds from the issuance of secured debt  343,696 45,447 241,772
Payments on secured debt  (284,433) (362,841) (1,144,346)
Net proceeds from the issuance of common stock  1,056,125 789,575 621,987
Redemption of preferred stock  — — (287,500)
Payments for deferred financing costs and prepayment penalties  (84,142) (29,691) (54,333)
Contributions by noncontrolling interests(1)  55,365 39,207 56,560
Distributions to noncontrolling interests(1)  (172,940) (109,871) (87,711)
Cash distributions to stockholders  (1,400,712) (1,348,863) (1,325,617)
Other financing activities  (15,675) (6,771) (10,839)
Net cash provided from (used in) financing activities  577,150 818,368 (1,913,527)
Effect of foreign currency translation on cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash 5,310 (9,015) 26,852
Increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash  69,637 6,826 (297,917)
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period  316,129 309,303 607,220
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period  $ 385,766 $ 316,129 $ 309,303
Supplemental cash flow information:   
Interest paid  $ 574,536 $ 501,404 $ 488,265
Income taxes paid  14,338 2,250 10,410
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests.
See accompanying notes.
67
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Business 
Welltower Inc., an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care infrastructure. 
The company invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate and
infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience. 
Welltower™, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth markets in the
United States (“U.S.”), Canada and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), consisting of seniors housing, post-acute communities and
outpatient medical properties. 
2. Accounting Policies and Related Matters
Use of Estimates
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements
and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint venture (“JV”) entities
that we control, through voting rights or other means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in
consolidation. At inception of JV transactions, we identify entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting
rights (“variable interest entities” or “VIEs”) and determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations. A
VIE is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial
interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional subordinated financial
support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary. Accounting Standards
Codification Topic 810, Consolidations (“ASC 810”), requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to determining whether
or not a VIE will need to be consolidated. This evaluation is based on an enterprise’s ability to direct and influence the activities of
a VIE that most significantly impact that entity’s economic performance. For investments in JVs, U.S. GAAP may preclude
consolidation by the sole general partner in certain circumstances based on the type of rights held by the limited partner(s). We
assess the limited partners’ rights and their impact on our consolidation conclusions, and we reassess if there is a change to the
terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership of
limited partnership interests, or there is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. We
similarly evaluate the rights of managing members of limited liability companies.
Revenue Recognition
For our Triple-net and Outpatient Medical segments, a significant source of our revenue is generated through leasing
arrangements. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease
period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded
based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. Leases in our Outpatient Medical portfolio typically include some
form of operating expense reimbursement by the tenant. Certain payments made to operators are treated as lease incentives and
amortized as a reduction of revenue over the lease term. 
For our Seniors Housing Operating segment, revenue from resident fees and services is predominantly service-based, and
generally are recognized monthly as services are provided. Agreements with residents generally have a term of one year and are
cancelable by the resident with 30 days’ notice. Management contracts are present in some of our joint venture agreements to
provide asset and property management, leasing, marketing and other services.
Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of
collectability risk.
We recognize gains on the disposition of real estate when the recognition criteria have been met, generally at the time the risks
and rewards and title have transferred and we no longer have substantial continuing involvement with the real estate sold. We
recognize losses from disposition of real estate when known.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Restricted Cash
Restricted cash primarily consists of amounts held by lenders to provide future payments for real estate taxes, insurance, tenant
and capital improvements, amounts held in escrow relating to transactions we are entitled to receive over a period of time as
outlined in the escrow agreement and net proceeds from property sales that were executed as tax-deferred dispositions under
Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) section 1031.
68
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Deferred Loan Expenses
Deferred loan expenses are costs incurred by us in connection with the issuance, assumption and amendments of debt
arrangements. Deferred loan expenses related to debt instruments, excluding the primary unsecured credit facility, are recorded as a
reduction of the related debt liability. Deferred loan expenses related to the primary unsecured credit facility are included in other
assets. We amortize these costs over the term of the debt using the straight-line method, which approximates the effective interest
method.
Investments in Unconsolidated Entities
Investments in entities that we do not consolidate but have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and
financial policies are reported under the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, our share of the investee’s earnings
or losses is included in our consolidated results of operations. The initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is
based on the amount paid to purchase the entity interest inclusive of transaction costs. To the extent that our cost basis is different
from the basis reflected at the entity level, the basis difference is generally amortized over the lives of the related assets and
liabilities, and such amortization is included in our share of equity in earnings of the entity. We evaluate our equity method
investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair value of the equity method investment to its carrying
value. When we determine a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its carrying value is other-than-
temporary, an impairment is recorded.
Equity Securities
Equity securities are measured at fair value with gains and losses recognized in loss (gain) on derivatives and financial
instruments, net in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests
Certain noncontrolling interests are redeemable at fair value. Accordingly, we record the carrying amount of the noncontrolling
interests at the greater of (i) the initial carrying amount, increased or decreased for the noncontrolling interest’s share of net income
or loss and its share of other comprehensive income or loss, and dividends or (ii) the redemption value. If it is probable that the
interests will be redeemed in the future, we accrete the carrying value to the redemption value over the period until expected
redemption, currently a weighted-average period of approximately one year. In accordance with ASC 810, the redeemable
noncontrolling interests are classified outside of permanent equity, as a mezzanine item, in the balance sheet. At December 31,
2019, the current redemption value of redeemable noncontrolling interests exceeded the carrying value of $475,877,000 by
$14,953,000.
We entered into certain DownREIT partnerships which give a real estate seller the ability to exchange its property on a tax
deferred basis for equity membership interests (“OP units”). The OP units may be redeemed any time following the first
anniversary of the date of issuance at the election of the holders for one share of our common stock per unit or, at our option, cash.
Real Property Owned
Real estate acquisitions are generally classified as asset acquisitions for which we record tangible assets and identifiable
intangible assets and liabilities at cost on a relative fair value basis. Liabilities assumed and any associated noncontrolling interests
are reflected at fair value. Tangible assets primarily consist of land, buildings and improvements.
Identifiable intangible assets and liabilities consist primarily of the above or below market component of in-place leases and the
value associated with the presence of in-place leases. The value allocable to the above or below market component of the acquired
in-place lease is determined based upon the present value (using a discount rate which reflects the risks associated with the acquired
leases) of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the lease over its remaining term, and
(ii) management’s estimate of the amounts that would be paid using fair market rates over the remaining term of the lease. The
amounts allocated to above market leases are included in acquired lease intangibles and below market leases are included in other
liabilities in the balance sheet and are amortized to rental income over the remaining terms of the respective leases or lease-up
period.
The total amount of other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease values and customer relationship values
for in-place tenants based on management’s evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease and our overall
relationship with that respective tenant. Characteristics considered by management in allocating these values include the nature and
extent of our existing business relationships with the tenant, growth prospects for developing new business with the tenant, the
tenant’s credit quality and expectations of lease renewals, among other factors. The total amount of other intangible assets acquired
is further allocated to in-place lease values for in-place residents with such value representing (i) value associated with lost revenue
related to tenant reimbursable operating costs that would be incurred in an assumed re-leasing period, and (ii) value associated with
lost rental revenue from existing leases during an assumed re-leasing period. This intangible asset is amortized over the remaining
life of the lease or the assumed re-leasing period.
69
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Real property developed by us is recorded at cost, including the capitalization of construction period interest. These properties
are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives which range from 15 to 40 years for buildings and 5 to 15
years for improvements. We consider costs incurred in conjunction with re-leasing properties, including tenant improvements and
lease commissions, to represent the acquisition of productive assets and, accordingly, such costs are reflected as investment
activities in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by property basis to determine if facts and
circumstances suggest that the assets may be impaired or that the depreciable life may need to be changed. We consider external
factors relating to each asset and the existence of a master lease which may link the cash flows of an individual asset to a larger
portfolio of assets leased to the same tenant. If these factors and the projected undiscounted cash flows of the assets over the
remaining depreciation period indicate that the assets will not be recoverable, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair
market value. In addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the
seniors housing and health care industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties
and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. Additionally, properties that meet the held for sale criteria
are recorded at the lessor of fair value less costs to sell or the carrying value.
Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.
Capitalization of Construction Period Interest
We capitalize interest costs associated with funds used for the construction of properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is
based upon the balance outstanding during the construction period using the rate of interest which approximates our company-wide
cost of financing. Our interest expense reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income has been reduced by the
amounts capitalized.
Loans Receivable
Loans receivable are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets in real estate loans receivable, net of allowance, or for non
real estate loans receivable, in receivables and other assets. Real estate loans receivable consists of mortgage loans and other real
estate loans which are primarily collateralized by a first, second or third mortgage lien, a leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment
of the partnership interest in, the related properties, corporate guarantees and/or personal guarantees. Non real estate loans are
generally corporate loans with no real estate backing. Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal
amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of collectability risks.
In Substance Real Estate Investments
We provide loans to third parties for the acquisition, development and construction of real estate. Under these arrangements, it is
possible that we will participate in the expected residual profits of the project through the sale, refinancing or acquisition of the
property. We evaluate the characteristics of each arrangement, including its risks and rewards, to determine whether they are more
similar to those associated with a loan or an investment in real estate. Arrangements with characteristics implying loan
classification are presented as real estate loans receivable and result in the recognition of interest income. Arrangements with
characteristics implying real estate joint ventures are treated as in substance real estate investments and presented as investments in
unconsolidated entities and are accounted for using the equity method. The classification of each arrangement as either a real estate
loan receivable or investment in unconsolidated entity involves judgment and relies on various factors, including market conditions,
amount and timing of expected residual profits, credit enhancements in the form of guarantees, estimated fair value of the
collateral, and significance of borrower equity in the project, among others. The classification of such arrangements is performed at
inception, and periodically reassessed when significant changes occur in the circumstances or conditions described above.
Allowance for Losses on Loans Receivable
The allowance for losses on loans receivable is maintained at a level believed adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans
receivable. The determination of the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of these loans, including general economic
conditions and estimated collectability of loan payments. We evaluate the collectability of our loans receivable based on a
combination of factors, including, but not limited to, delinquency status, historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the
borrower and guarantors, and value of the underlying collateral. If such factors indicate that there is greater risk of loan charge-offs,
additional allowances or placement on non-accrual status may be required. A loan is impaired when, based on current information
and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to the contractual terms of the
original loan agreement. Consistent with this definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed impaired. To the extent circumstances
improve and the risk of collectability is diminished, we will return these loans to income accrual status. While a loan is on non-
accrual status, any cash receipts are applied against the outstanding principal balance. Any loans with collectability concerns are
subjected to a projected payoff valuation. The valuation is based on the expected future cash flows and/or the estimated fair value
of the underlying collateral. The valuation is compared to the outstanding balance to determine the reserve needed for each loan.
We may base our valuation on a loan’s observable market price, if any, or the fair value of collateral, net of sales costs, if the
repayment of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the collateral.
70
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Goodwill
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is tested for impairment more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that
the asset might be impaired. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount, including goodwill, exceeds
the reporting unit’s fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount of that goodwill. We have not
had any goodwill impairments.
 Fair Value of Derivative Instruments
Derivatives are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities. The valuation of derivative instruments requires
us to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. Fair values of our derivatives are estimated by
pricing models that consider the forward yield curves and discount rates. The fair value of our forward exchange contracts are
estimated by pricing models that consider foreign currency spot rates, forward trade rates and discount rates. Such amounts and the
recognition of such amounts are subject to significant estimates that may change in the future. See Note 12 for additional
information.
Federal Income Tax
We have elected to be treated as a REIT under the applicable provisions of the IRC, commencing with our first taxable year, and
made no provision for U.S. federal income tax purposes prior to our acquisition of our taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”). As a
result of these as well as subsequent acquisitions, we now record income tax expense or benefit with respect to certain of our
entities that are taxed as TRSs under provisions similar to those applicable to regular corporations and not under the REIT
provisions. We account for deferred income taxes using the asset and liability method and recognize deferred tax assets and
liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in our consolidated financial statements or tax
returns. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial reporting
and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse.
Any increase or decrease in the deferred tax liability that results from a change in circumstances, and that causes a change in our
judgment about expected future tax consequences of events, is included in the tax provision when such changes occur. Deferred
income taxes also reflect the impact of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance is provided if we believe
it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Any increase or decrease in the
valuation allowance that results from a change in circumstances, and that causes a change in our judgment about the realizability of
the related deferred tax asset, is included in the tax provision when such changes occur. See Note 19 for additional information.
Foreign Currency
Certain of our subsidiaries’ functional currencies are the local currencies of their respective countries. We translate the results of
operations of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. Dollars using average rates of exchange in effect during the period, and we translate
balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. We record resulting currency translation adjustments
in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders’ equity, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number
of shares outstanding for the period adjusted for non-vested shares of restricted stock. The computation of diluted earnings per
share is similar to basic earnings per share, except that the number of shares is increased to include the number of additional
common shares that would have been outstanding if the potentially dilutive common shares had been issued.
Reclassifications
Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
New Accounting Standards
We adopted Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) ("ASC 842") which requires lessees to
recognize assets and liabilities on their Consolidated Balance Sheet related to the rights and obligations created by most leases,
while continuing to recognize expenses on their Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income over the lease term. We adopted
ASC 842 as of January 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective approach and have elected the package of practical expedients
permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, permits us to carry forward our prior
conclusions for lease classification and initial direct costs on existing leases. We also made an accounting policy election to keep
short-term leases less than twelve months off the balance sheet for all classes of underlying assets.
In July 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2018-11 "Leases (Topic 842): Targeted
Improvements" that (1) simplifies transition requirements for both lessees and lessors by adding an option that permits entities to
apply the transition provisions of the new standard at its adoption date instead of at the earliest comparative period presented in its
financial statements and (2) allows lessors to elect, as a practical expedient, to not separate lease and non-lease components in
71
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
a contract, and instead to account for as a single lease component, if certain criteria are met. This practical expedient causes an
entity to assess whether a contract is predominantly lease or service-based and recognize the entire contract under the relevant
accounting guidance (e.g. predominantly lease-based would be accounted for under ASC 842 and predominantly service-based
would be accounted for under ASU 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606)"). For the year ended December
31, 2018, we recognized revenue for our Seniors Housing Operating resident agreements in accordance with the provisions of the
prior lease guidance, ASC 840, "Leases". Upon adoption of ASC 842, we elected the lessor practical expedient described above and
recognized our revenue for our Seniors Housing Operating segment based upon the predominant component, generally the non-
lease service component. Therefore, beginning on January 1, 2019, we accounted for the majority of such resident agreements
under ASC 606. The timing and pattern of revenue recognition is substantially the same as that prior to adoption.
The FASB also issued ASU 2018-20 "Leases (Topic 842): Narrow Improvements for Lessors", which provides lessors the ability
to make an accounting policy election not to evaluate whether certain sales taxes and other similar taxes imposed by a
governmental authority on a specific lease revenue-producing transaction are the primary obligation of the lessor as owner of the
underlying leased asset. A lessor that makes this election will exclude these taxes from the measurement of lease revenue and the
associated expense. Upon adoption of ASC 842, we utilized this practical expedient in instances in which real estate taxes are paid
directly by our tenants to taxing authorities. For triple-net leasing arrangements in which the tenant remits payment for real estate
taxes to us and we pay the taxing authority, we have included the associated revenue and expense in rental income and property
operating expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. This reporting had no impact on our net income.
For leases in which the Company is the lessee, primarily consisting of ground leases and various office and equipment leases, we
recognized upon adoption a right of use asset of $509,386,000 which included the present value of minimum leases payments,
existing above and/or below market lease intangible values and existing straight-line rent liabilities associated with such leases. We
also recognized operating lease liabilities of $357,070,000. The standard did not materially impact our Consolidated Statements of
Comprehensive Income or our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. See Note 6 for additional details.
In 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, “Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.” This standard requires a new
forward-looking “expected loss” model to be used for receivables, held-to-maturity debt, loans receivable, and other instruments. In
November 2018, the FASB issued an amendment excluding operating lease receivables accounted for under the new leases
standard from the scope of the new credit loss standard. ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company on January 1, 2020.
We have continued our implementation efforts, including data collection and processing, model development and validation, and
establishment of the governance and control processes. We currently do not believe that the adoption of this new guidance will have
a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
3. Real Property Acquisitions and Development 
The total purchase price for all properties acquired has been allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets and
liabilities at cost on a relative fair value basis. Liabilities assumed and any associated noncontrolling interests are reflected at fair
value. The results of operations for these acquisitions have been included in our consolidated results of operations since the date of
acquisition and are a component of the appropriate segments. Transaction costs primarily represent costs incurred with acquisitions,
including due diligence costs, fees for legal and valuation services, termination of pre-existing relationships computed based on the
fair value of the assets acquired, lease termination fees and other acquisition-related costs. Transaction costs related to asset
acquisitions are capitalized as a component of the purchase price and all other non-capitalizable costs are reflected in other
expenses on our Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The following tables summarize our real property investment activity by segment for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018
and 2017 (in thousands):
72
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Year Ended December 31, 2019
 Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net  Outpatient
Medical Total
Land and land improvements  $ 154,470 $ 24,097  $ 293,933 $ 472,500
Buildings and improvements  1,518,748 203,282  1,954,928 3,676,958
Acquired lease intangibles  76,009 — 183,921 259,930
Real property held for sale 17,435 — — 17,435
Construction in progress 36,174 — — 36,174
Right of use assets, net — — 58,377 58,377
Receivables and other assets 15,634 — 1,586 17,220
Total assets acquired(1)1,818,470 227,379  2,492,745 4,538,594
Secured debt  (194,408 ) — (206,754 ) (401,162 )
Lease liabilities — — (47,740 ) (47,740 )
Accrued expenses and other liabilities (12,024 ) — (32,893 ) (44,917 )
Total liabilities assumed (206,432 ) — (287,387 ) (493,819 )
Noncontrolling interests(2)(67,987 ) (4,015 ) (1,201 ) (73,203 )
Non-cash acquisition related activity(3)(11,889 ) — — (11,889 )
 Cash disbursed for acquisitions 1,532,162 223,364  2,204,157 3,959,683
Construction in progress additions 227,018 61,414  60,884 349,316
Capitalized interest (8,889 ) (2,385 ) (3,998 ) (15,272 )
Foreign currency translation (8,643 ) (878) — (9,521 )
Accruals(4)— — (1,035 ) (1,035 )
Cash disbursed for construction in progress 209,486 58,151  55,851 323,488
Capital improvements to existing properties 260,413 17,426  50,985 328,824
Total cash invested in real property , net of cash acquired  $ 2,002,061 $ 298,941  $ 2,310,993 $ 4,611,995
(1) Excludes $2,090,000 of unrestricted and restricted cash acquired.
(2) Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests.
(3) Relates to the acquisition of assets previously recognized as investments in unconsolidated entities.
(4) Represents non-cash accruals for amounts to be paid in future periods for properties that converted, off-set by amounts paid in the current period.
 Year Ended December 31, 2018
 Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net  Outpatient
Medical Total
Land and land improvements  $ 51,440 $ 413,588  $ 77,239 $ 542,267
Buildings and improvements  621,731 2,242,884  478,740 3,343,355
Acquired lease intangibles  69,504 9,690  50,813 130,007
Real property held for sale — 396,265  22,032 418,297
Receivables and other assets  1,492 1,354  1,185 4,031
Total assets acquired(1)744,167 3,063,781 630,009 4,437,957
Secured debt  (134,752 ) — (169,156 ) (303,908 )
Accrued expenses and other liabilities (18,463 ) (13,199 ) (14,896 ) (46,558 )
Total liabilities assumed (153,215 ) (13,199 ) (184,052 ) (350,466 )
Noncontrolling interests(2) (14,390 ) (512,741 ) — (527,131 )
Cash disbursed for acquisitions 576,562 2,537,841 445,957 3,560,360
Construction in progress additions 82,621 55,558  26,565 164,744
Capitalized interest (3,190 ) (2,238 ) (2,477 ) (7,905 )
Foreign currency translation 3,934 272  — 4,206
Accruals(3) — — (339) (339)
Cash disbursed for construction in progress 83,365 53,592 23,749 160,706
Capital improvements to existing properties 201,001 10,046  55,136 266,183
Total cash invested in real property , net of cash acquired  $ 860,928 $ 2,601,479 $ 524,842 $ 3,987,249
(1) Excludes $395,397,000 of unrestricted and restricted cash acquired.
(2) Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests.
(3) Represents non-cash accruals for amounts to be paid in future periods for properties that converted, off-set by amounts paid in the current period.
73
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Year Ended December 31, 2017
 Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net  Outpatient
Medical Total
Land and land improvements  $ 42,525 $ 33,416  $ 40,565 $ 116,506
Buildings and improvements  428,777 248,459  159,643 836,879
Acquired lease intangibles  63,912 — 24,014 87,926
Receivables and other assets  3,959 — 10 3,969
Total assets acquired(1)539,173 281,875  224,232 1,045,280
Secured debt  — — (25,708 ) (25,708 )
Accrued expenses and other liabilities (46,301 ) (21,236 ) (3,181 ) (70,718 )
Total liabilities assumed (46,301 ) (21,236 ) (28,889 ) (96,426 )
Noncontrolling interests(2)(4,701 ) (7,275 ) (9,080 ) (21,056 )
Non-cash acquisition related activity(3)(67,633 ) (54,901 ) — (122,534 )
Cash disbursed for acquisitions 420,538 198,463  186,263 805,264
Construction in progress additions 84,874 120,797  37,094 242,765
Capitalized interest (9,106 ) (4,713 ) (2,406 ) (16,225 )
Foreign currency translation (6,830 ) (610) — (7,440 )
Accruals(4)— — 13,615 13,615
Cash disbursed for construction in progress 68,938 115,474  48,303 232,715
Capital improvements to existing properties 185,473 19,989  44,814 250,276
Total cash invested in real property , net of cash acquired  $ 674,949 $ 333,926  $ 279,380 $ 1,288,255
(1) Excludes $6,591,000 of unrestricted and restricted cash acquired.
(2) Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests.
(3) For the Seniors Housing Operating segment, includes $59,665,000 related to the acquisition of assets previously financed as investments in unconsolidated
entities and $7,968,000 related to the acquisition of assets previously financed as loans receivable. For the Triple-net segment, amount is related to the acquisition of
assets previously financed as loans receivable.
(4) Represents non-cash accruals for amounts to be paid in future periods for properties that converted, off-set by amounts paid in the current period.
Acquisition of Quality Care Properties
On July 26, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Quality Care Properties Inc. ("QCP"), with QCP shareholders receiving
$20.75 of cash for each share of QCP common stock and all existing QCP debt was repaid upon closing. Prior to the acquisition,
ProMedica Health System ("ProMedica") completed the acquisition of HCR ManorCare. Immediately following the acquisition of
QCP, we formed an 80/20 joint venture with ProMedica to own the real estate associated with the 218 seniors housing properties
leased to ProMedica under a lease agreement with the following key terms: (i) 15-year absolute triple-net master lease with three
five-year renewal options; (ii) initial annual cash rent of $179 million with a year one escalator of 1.375% and 2.75% annual
escalators thereafter; and (iii) full corporate guarantee of ProMedica. Additionally, we acquired 59 seniors housing properties
classified as held for sale and leased to ProMedica under a non-yielding lease, 12 seniors housing properties and one surgery center
classified as held for sale and leased to operators under existing triple-net leases, 14 seniors housing properties leased to operators
under existing triple-net leases and one multi-tenant medical office building leased to various tenants. The aggregate consideration
to acquire the QCP shares and repay outstanding QCP debt was approximately $3.5 billion.
We concluded that the QCP acquisition met the definition of an asset acquisition under ASU 2017-01, "Clarifying the Definition
of a Business". The following table presents the purchase price calculation and the allocation to assets acquired and liabilities
assumed based upon their relative fair value:
74
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In thousands)  
Land and land improvements  $ 417,983
Buildings and improvements  2,253,451
Acquired lease intangibles  12,820
Real property held for sale  418,297
Cash and cash equivalents  381,913
Restricted cash  4,981
Receivables and other assets  1,354
Total assets acquired  3,490,799
Accrued expenses and other liabilities   (13,199 )
Total liabilities assumed  (13,199 )
Noncontrolling interests  (512,741 )
Net assets acquired  $ 2,964,859
Construction Activity 
The following is a summary of the construction projects that were placed into service and began generating revenues during the
periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
Development projects:   
Seniors Housing Operating $ 28,117 $ 86,931 $ 3,634
Triple-net — 90,055 283,472
Outpatient Medical 21,006 11,358 63,036
Total development projects 49,123 188,344 350,142
Expansion projects — 20,029 10,336
Total construction in progress conversions $ 49,123 $ 208,373 $ 360,478
 
4. Real Estate Intangibles 
The following is a summary of our real estate intangibles, excluding those classified as held for sale, as of the dates indicated
(dollars in thousands):
  December 31, 2019  December 31, 2018
Assets:    
In place lease intangibles  $ 1,513,836  $ 1,410,725
Above market tenant leases  59,540  63,935
Below market ground leases(1) — 64,513
Lease commissions  43,675  41,986
Gross historical cost  1,617,051  1,581,159
Accumulated amortization  (1,181,158 ) (1,197,336 )
Net book value  $ 435,893  $ 383,823
Weighted-average amortization period in years  10.3  16.0
Liabilities:    
Below market tenant leases  $ 99,035  $ 81,676
Above market ground leases(1) — 8,540
Gross historical cost  99,035  90,216
Accumulated amortization  (49,390 ) (44,266 )
Net book value  $ 49,645  $ 45,950
Weighted-average amortization period in years  8.6 14.7
(1) Effective on January 1, 2019 with the adoption of ASC 842, above and below market ground lease intangibles are reported within the right of use assets, net line
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The following is a summary of real estate intangible amortization income (expense) for the periods presented (in thousands):
75
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  Year Ended December 31,
  2019 2018  2017
Rental income related to (above)/below market tenant leases, net  $ 508 $ (1,269 ) $ 875
Depreciation and amortization related to in place lease intangibles and lease
commissions  (135,047 ) (122,515 ) (145,132 )
The future estimated aggregate amortization of intangible assets and liabilities is as follows for the periods presented (in
thousands):
  Assets Liabilities
2020  $ 119,973 $ 9,498
2021  59,824 8,529
2022  40,802 7,758
2023  34,803 5,483
2024  27,415 3,362
Thereafter  153,076 15,015
Totals  $ 435,893 $ 49,645
 
5. Dispositions and Real Property Held for Sale
We periodically sell properties for various reasons, including favorable market conditions, the exercise of tenant purchase options
or reduction of concentrations (e.g. property type, relationship or geography). During the year ended December 31, 2019, we
disposed of our Benchmark Senior Living portfolio for a gross sale price of $1.8 billion and a gain on sale of $520 million.
At December 31, 2019, 18 Seniors Housing Operating, 11 Triple-net and 42 Outpatient Medical properties with an aggregate net
real estate balance of $1,253,008,000 were classified as held for sale for which we expect gross sales proceeds of approximately
$1,960,685,000. In addition to the real property balances held for sale, secured debt of $112,589,000 and net other assets and
liabilities of $25,194,000 are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet related to held for sale properties. During the year ended
December 31, 2019, we recorded net impairment charges of $13,130,000 related to certain held for sale properties for which the
carrying value exceeded the fair values, less estimated costs to sell, and $15,003,000 related to five held for use properties for
which the carrying value exceeded the sum of the future undiscounted cash flows. The following is a summary of our real property
disposition activity for the periods presented (in thousands):
  Year Ended
  December 31, 2019  December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
Real property dispositions:      
Seniors Housing Operating  $ 1,232,816  $ 36,627 $ 74,832
Triple-net  667,632  835,093 916,689
Outpatient Medical  482  253,397 19,697
Total dispositions  1,900,930  1,125,1 17 1,011,218
Gain (loss) on sales of real property , net  748,041  415,575 344,250
Net other assets (liabilities) disposed  1,679  1,178 22,546
Proceeds from real property sales  $ 2,650,650  $ 1,541,870 $ 1,378,014
Dispositions and Assets Held for Sale 
Pursuant to our adoption of ASU 2014-08, “Presentation of Financial Statements (Topic 205) and Property, Plant and Equipment
(Topic 360): Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity” (ASU 2014-08”),
operating results attributable to properties sold subsequent to or classified as held for sale after January 1, 2014 and which do not
meet the definition of discontinued operations are no longer reclassified on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive
Income. The following represents the activity related to these properties for the periods presented (in thousands):
76
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Year Ended December 31,
 2019  2018 2017
Revenues:   
Total revenues $ 449,080  $ 665,384 $ 769,835
Expenses:   
Interest expense 4,924  6,617 12,458
Property operating expenses 257,510  383,907 374,370
Provision for depreciation 65,698  109,674 153,009
Total expenses 328,132  500,198 539,837
Income (loss) from real estate dispositions, net $ 120,948  $ 165,186 $ 229,998
 
6. Leases
We lease land, buildings, office space and certain equipment. Many of our leases include a renewal option to extend the term
from one to 25 years or more. Renewal options that we are reasonably certain to exercise are recognized in our right-of-use assets
and lease liabilities. As most of our leases do not provide a rate implicit in the lease agreement, we use our incremental borrowing
rate available at lease commencement to determine the present value of lease payments. The incremental borrowing rates were
determined using our longer term borrowing rates (actual pricing through 30 years, as well as other longer-term market rates). For
leases that commenced prior to January 1, 2019, we used the incremental borrowing rate on December 31, 2018.
We sublease certain real estate to a third party. Our sublease portfolio consists of a finance lease with Genesis HealthCare for
seven buildings.
The components of lease expense were as follows for the period presented (in thousands):
 Classification  Year Ended December 31, 2019
Operating lease cost: (1)  
Real estate lease expense Property operating expenses  $ 25,166
Non-real estate investment lease expense General and administrative expenses  1,654
Finance lease cost:   
Amortization of leased assets Property operating expenses  7,795
Interest on lease liabilities Interest expense  4,748
Sublease income Rental income  (4,173 )
Total   $ 35,190
(1) Includes short-term leases which are immaterial.
Maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2019 are as follows (in thousands):
 Operating Leases Finance Leases
2020 $ 23,356 $ 9,121
2021 23,322 8,786
2022 22,147 8,149
2023 22,117 69,182
2024 21,294 1,419
Thereafter 1,073,396 89,678
Total lease payments 1,185,632 186,335
Less: Imputed interest (820,829 ) (77,445 )
Total present value of lease liabilities $ 364,803 $ 108,890
Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases was as follows as of December 31, 2019 (in thousands, except lease
terms and discount rate):
77
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Classification December 31, 2019
Right of use assets:  
Operating leases - real estate Right of use assets, net $ 374,217
Finance leases - real estate Right of use assets, net 162,216
Real estate right of use assets, net 536,433
Operating leases - non-real estate investments Receivables and other assets 12,474
Total right of use assets, net $ 548,907
Lease liabilities:  
Operating leases $ 364,803
Financing leases 108,890
Total lease liabilities $ 473,693
Weighted average remaining lease term (years):  
Operating leases 46.0
Finance leases 15.9
Weighted average discount rate:  
Operating leases 5.00%
Finance leases 5.18%
Supplemental cash flow information related to leases was as follows for the date indicated (in thousands):
 Classification  Year Ended December
31, 2019
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities:  
Operating cash flows from operating leases Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets  $ 6,397
Operating cash flows from operating leases Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other liabilities (5,489)
Operating cash flows from finance leases Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets  10,732
Financing cash flows from finance leases Other financing activities  (3,401)
Substantially all of our operating leases in which we are the lessor contain escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual
rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment.
Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental
payments due for the period. Leases in our Outpatient Medical portfolio typically include some form of operating expense
reimbursement by the tenant. We recognized $1,588,400,000 of rental and other revenues related to operating leases, of which
$200,564,000 was for variable lease payments, for the year ended December 31, 2019, which primarily represents the
reimbursement of operating costs such as common area maintenance expenses, utilities, insurance and real estate taxes. The
following table sets forth the future minimum lease payments receivable for leases in effect at December 31, 2019 (excluding
properties in our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio and excluding any operating expense reimbursements) (in thousands):
2020  $ 1,430,978
2021  1,384,721
2022  1,346,917
2023  1,302,601
2024  1,265,988
Thereafter  9,026,163
Totals  $ 15,757,368
78
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
7. Loans Receivable
The following is a summary of our loans receivable (in thousands):
  Year Ended December 31,
  2019  2018
Mortgage loans  $ 188,062  $ 317,443
Other real estate loans  124,696  81,268
Allowance for losses on real estate loans receivable  (42,376 ) (68,372 )
Real estate loans receivable, net of allowance  270,382  330,339
Non real estate loans  362,850  282,443
Allowance for losses on non real estate loans receivable  (25,996 ) —
Non real estate loans receivable, net of allowance(1) 336,854  282,443
Total loans receivable, net of allowance  $ 607,236  $ 612,782
 (1) Included in receivables and other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets
The following is a summary of our loan activity for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
Advances on loans receivable:    
Investments in new loans $ 46,824 $ 77,289 $ 61,122
Draws on existing loans 72,875 34,759 40,094
Net cash advances on loans receivable 119,699 112,048 101,216
Receipts on loans receivable:    
Loan payof fs 118,703 144,700 181,549
Principal payments on loans 9,003 59,235 33,431
Net cash receipts on loans 127,706 203,935 214,980
Net cash advances (receipts) on loans $ (8,007 )$ (91,887 )$ (113,764 )
In 2016, we restructured real estate loans with Genesis Healthcare and recorded a loan loss charge in the amount of $6,935,000
on one of the loans as the present value of expected future cash flows was less than the carrying value of the loan. During 2017, we
recorded an additional loan loss charge of $62,966,000 relating to real estate loans receivable from Genesis HealthCare based on an
estimation of future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate of the loans. In 2019, we recognized a provision for loan
losses of $18,690,000 to fully reserve for and eventually wrote off certain Triple-net real estate loans receivable that were no longer
deemed collectible. In the fourth quarter of 2019 one of the Genesis Healthcare real estate loans transitioned to a non real estate
loan due to the sale of the underlying properties that served as collateral for the loan. As of December 31, 2019, the total allowance
for loan loss balance of $68,372,000 is deemed to be sufficient to absorb expected losses. In addition, at December 31, 2019, we
had one real estate loan with an outstanding balance of $2,534,000 on non-accrual status. No provision for loan loss has been
recorded for this loan given the underlying collateral value. The following is a summary of the allowance for losses on loans
receivable for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2019  2018 2017
Balance at beginning of year $ 68,372  $ 68,372 $ 6,563
Provision for loan losses 18,690  — 62,966
Char ge-of fs (18,690 ) — —
Change in present value — — (1,157 )
Balance at end of year $ 68,372  $ 68,372 $ 68,372
The following is a summary of our impaired loans (in thousands):
79
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Year Ended December 31,
 2019  2018  2017
Balance of impaired loans at end of year $ 188,018  $ 189,272  $ 282,882
Allowance for loan losses (68,372 ) (68,372 ) (68,372 )
Balance of impaired loans not reserved $ 119,646  $ 120,900  $ 214,510
Average impaired loans for the year $ 192,728  $ 236,077  $ 330,216
Interest recognized on impaired loans(1)16,235  17,241  27,793
 (1) Represents cash interest recognized in the period since loans were identified as impaired.
8. Investments in Unconsolidated Entities 
We participate in a number of joint ventures, which generally invest in seniors housing and health care real estate. The results of
operations for these properties have been included in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition by the joint
ventures and are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income as income or loss from unconsolidated
entities. The following is a summary of our investments in unconsolidated entities (dollars in thousands):
  Percentage Ownership(1) December 31, 2019  December 31, 2018
Seniors Housing Operating  10% to 50%  $ 463,741  $ 344,982
Triple-net  10% to 34%  7,740 34,284
Outpatient Medical  43% to 50%  111,942  103,648
Total   $ 583,423  $ 482,914
(1) Excludes ownership of in-substance real estate.
We own 34% of Sunrise Senior Living Management, Inc. ("Sunrise"), who provides comprehensive property management and
accounting services with respect to certain of our Seniors Housing Operating properties that Sunrise operates. We pay Sunrise
annual management fees pursuant to long-term management agreements. Our management agreements have initial terms expiring
through December 2034 plus, if applicable, optional renewal periods ranging from an additional 5 to 15 years depending on the
property. The management fees payable to Sunrise under the management agreements include a fee based on a percentage of
revenues generated by the applicable properties plus, if applicable, positive or negative adjustments based on specified performance
targets. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we recognized fees to Sunrise of $41,200,000, $36,378,000 and
$37,573,000, respectively, which are reflected within property operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of
Comprehensive Income. 
During the year ended December 31, 2019, we sold our interest in a Seniors Housing Operating joint venture and recognized a
gain of $38,681,000 in income (loss) from unconsolidated entities in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
At December 31, 2019, the aggregate unamortized basis difference of our joint venture investments of $101,275,000 is primarily
attributable to the difference between the amount for which we purchased our interest in the entity, including transaction costs, and
the historical carrying value of the net assets of the entity. This difference is being amortized over the remaining useful life of the
related properties and included in the reported amount of income from unconsolidated entities.
We have made loans totaling $165,193,000 related to seven properties as of December 31, 2019 for the development and
construction of certain properties which are classified as in substance real estate investments. We believe that such borrowers
typically represent variable interest entities (“VIE” or VIE’s”) in accordance with ASC 810 Consolidation. VIE’s are required to be
consolidated by their Primary Beneficiary (“PB”) which is the enterprise that has both: (i) the power to direct the activities of the
VIE that most significantly impacts the entity’s economic performance; and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses or the right to
receive benefits of the VIE that could be significant to the entity. We have concluded that we are not the PB of such borrowers,
therefore, the loan arrangements were assessed based on among other factors, the amount and timing of expected residual profits,
the estimated fair value of the collateral and the significance of the borrower’s equity in the project. Based on these assessments the
arrangements have been classified as in substance real estate investments. We expect to fund an additional $139,472,000 related to
these investments.
9. Credit Concentration
We use consolidated net operating income (“NOI”) as our credit concentration metric. See Note 18 for additional information and
reconciliation. The following table summarizes certain information about our credit concentration for the year ended December 31,
2019, excluding our share of NOI in unconsolidated entities (dollars in thousands):
80
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Number of Total  Percent of
Concentration by relationship:(1)Properties NOI  NOI(2)
Sunrise Senior Living(3)165 $ 342,595  14%
ProMedica 218 215,083  9%
Revera(3)94 146,451  6%
Genesis HealthCare 54 119,928  5%
Belmont Village 21 76,354  3%
Remaining portfolio 1,026 1,530,853  63%
Totals 1,578 $ 2,431,264  100%
(1) Genesis HealthCare and ProMedica are in our Triple-net segment. Sunrise Senior Living, Revera and Belmont Village are in our Seniors Housing Operating
segment. 
(2) NOI with our top five relationships comprised 38% of total NOI for the year ending December 31, 2018.
(3) Revera owns a controlling interest in Sunrise Senior Living. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized $1,219,253,000 of revenue from properties
managed by Sunrise Senior Living.
10. Borrowings Under Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Program
At December 31, 2019, we had a primary unsecured credit facility with a consortium of 31 banks that includes a $3,000,000,000
unsecured revolving credit facility ($945,000,000 outstanding at December 31, 2019), a $500,000,000 unsecured term credit
facility and a $250,000,000 Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility. We have an option, through an accordion feature,
to upsize the unsecured revolving credit facility and the $500,000,000 unsecured term credit facility by up to an additional
$1,000,000,000, in the aggregate, and the $250,000,000 Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility by up to an additional
$250,000,000. The primary unsecured credit facility also allows us to borrow up to $1,000,000,000 in alternate currencies (none
outstanding at December 31, 2019). Borrowings under the unsecured revolving credit facility are subject to interest payable at the
applicable margin over LIBOR interest rate (2.59% at December 31, 2019). The applicable margin is based on our debt ratings and
was 0.825% at December 31, 2019. In addition, we pay a facility fee quarterly to each bank based on the bank’s commitment
amount. The facility fee depends on our debt ratings and was 0.15% at December 31, 2019. The term credit facilities mature on
July 19, 2023. The revolving credit facility is scheduled to mature on July 19, 2022 and can be extended for two successive terms
of six months each at our option.
In January 2019, we established an unsecured commercial paper program. Under the terms of the program, we may issue
unsecured commercial paper notes with maturities that vary, but do not exceed 397 days from the date of issue, up to a maximum
aggregate face or principal amount outstanding at any time of $1,000,000,000. As of December 31, 2019, there was a balance of
$642,597,000 outstanding on the commercial paper program ($643,600,000 in principal outstanding net of an unamortized discount
of $1,003,000), which reduces the borrowing capacity on the unsecured revolving credit facility. The notes bear interest at various
floating rates with a weighted average of 2.16% as of December 31, 2019 and a weighted average maturity of 26 days as of
December 31, 2019.
The following information relates to aggregate borrowings under the primary unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial
paper program for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
  Year Ended December 31,
  2019 2018  2017
Balance outstanding at year end  $ 1,588,600 $ 1,147,000  $ 719,000
Maximum amount outstanding at any month end  $ 2,880,000 $ 2,148,000  $ 1,010,000
Average amount outstanding (total of daily principal balances    
divided by days in period)  $ 1,376,813 $ 950,581  $ 597,422
Weighted-average interest rate (actual interest expense divided    
by average borrowings outstanding)  2.84% 3.07% 2.02%
 
11. Senior Unsecured Notes and Secured Debt
We may repurchase, redeem or refinance senior unsecured notes from time to time, taking advantage of favorable market
conditions when available. We may purchase senior notes for cash through open market purchases, privately negotiated
transactions, a tender offer or, in some cases, through the early redemption of such securities pursuant to their terms. The senior
unsecured notes are redeemable at our option, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to the
sum of (1) the principal amount of the notes (or portion of such notes) being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon up
to the redemption date and (2) any “make-whole” amount due under the terms of the notes in connection with early
redemptions. Redemptions and repurchases of debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements,
contractual restrictions, and other factors. At December 31, 2019, the annual principal payments due on these debt obligations were
as follows (in thousands):
81
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Senior
Unsecured Notes(1,2) Secured
Debt (1,3)Totals
2020 $ — $ 354,329 $ 354,329
2021 — 439,176 439,176
2022 10,000  421,876 431,876
2023(4,5)1,792,871  467,378 2,260,249
2024 1,350,000  304,533 1,654,533
Thereafter(6,7,8)7,274,691  1,006,050 8,280,741
Totals $ 10,427,562  $ 2,993,342 $ 13,420,904
(1) Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not include unamortized premiums/discounts, debt issuance costs, or other fair value adjustments as reflected on
the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(2) Annual interest rates range from 2.40% to 6.50%.
(3) Annual interest rates range from 1.25% to 12.00%. Carrying value of the properties securing the debt totaled $6,550,033,000 at December 31, 2019.
(4) Includes a $250,000,000 Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility (approximately $192,871,000 based on the Canadian/U.S. Dollar exchange rate on
December 31, 2019). The loan matures on July 19, 2023 and bears interest at the Canadian Dealer Offered Rate plus 0.9% (2.93% at December 31, 2019).
(5) Includes a $500,000,000 unsecured term credit facility. The loan matures on July 19, 2023 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.9% (2.66% at December 31, 2019).
(6) Includes a $300,000,000 Canadian-denominated 2.95% senior unsecured notes due 2027 (approximately $231,446,000 based on the Canadian/U.S. Dollar
exchange rate on December 31, 2019).
(7) Includes a £550,000,000 4.80% senior unsecured notes due 2028 (approximately $729,795,000 based on the Pounds Sterling/U.S. Dollar exchange rate in effect
on December 31, 2019).
(8) Includes a £500,000,000 4.50% senior unsecured notes due 2034 (approximately $663,450,000 based on the Pounds Sterling/U.S. Dollar exchange rate in effect
on December 31, 2019).
The following is a summary of our senior unsecured note principal activity during the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
  Year Ended
  December 31, 2019  December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
    Weighted Avg.   Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
  Amount  Interest Rate  Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning
balance  $ 9,699,984  4.48%  $ 8,417,447 4.31% $ 8,260,038 4.25%
Debt issued  3,987,790  3.34%  2,850,000 4.57% 7,500 1.97%
Debt
extinguished  (3,335,290 ) 4.39%  (1,450,000 ) 3.46% (5,000 ) 1.83%
Foreign currency  75,078  4.22%  (117,463 ) 4.16% 154,909 4.29%
Ending balance  $ 10,427,562  4.03%  $ 9,699,984 4.48% $ 8,417,447 4.31%
 
The following is a summary of our secured debt principal activity for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
 Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 2,485,71 1 3.90% $ 2,618,408 3.76% $ 3,465,066 4.09%
Debt issued 343,696 3.11% 45,447 3.40% 241,772 2.82%
Debt assumed 385,145 4.34% 292,887 4.64% 23,094 6.67%
Debt extinguished (230,108 ) 4.35% (306,553 ) 5.36% (1,080,268 ) 5.25%
Debt deconsolidated — —% — —% (60,000 ) 3.80%
Principal payments (54,325 ) 3.75% (56,288 ) 3.91% (64,078 ) 4.34%
Foreign currency 63,223 3.28% (108,190 ) 3.33% 92,822 3.16%
Ending balance $ 2,993,342 3.63% $ 2,485,71 1 3.90% $ 2,618,408 3.76%
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Certain agreements require us to maintain
certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make
investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements.
82
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12. Derivative Instruments
We are exposed to, among other risks, the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our non-U.S.
investments and interest rate risk related to our capital structure. Our risk management program is designed to manage the exposure
and volatility arising from these risks, and utilizes foreign currency forward contracts, cross currency swap contracts, interest rate
swaps, interest rate locks and debt issued in foreign currencies to offset a portion of these risks.
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Cash Flow Hedges
For instruments that are designated as and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative
is deferred as a component of other comprehensive income (“OCI”), and reclassified into earnings in the same period, or periods,
during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness
or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings. 
Cash Flow Hedges of Interest Rate Risk
We enter into interest rate swaps in order to maintain a capital structure containing targeted amounts of fixed and floating-rate
debt and manage interest rate risk. Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable amounts from
a counterparty in exchange for our fixed-rate payments. These interest rate swap agreements were used to hedge the variable cash
flows associated with variable-rate debt.
Periodically, we enter into and designate interest rate locks to partially hedge the risk of changes in interest rate payments
attributable to increases in the benchmark interest rate during the period leading up to the probable issuance of fixed-rate debt. We
designate our interest rate locks as cash flow hedges. Gains and losses when we settle our interest rate locks are amortized into
income over the life of the related debt, except where a material amount is deemed to be ineffective, which would be immediately
reclassified to the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts and Cross Currency Swap Contracts Designated as Net Investment Hedges
We use foreign currency forward and cross currency forward swap contracts to hedge a portion of the net investment in foreign
subsidiaries against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. For instruments that are designated and qualify as net investment
hedges, the variability in the foreign currency to U.S. Dollar of the instrument is recorded as a cumulative translation adjustment
component of OCI. 
During the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017 we settled certain net investment hedges generating cash proceeds of
$6,716,000, $70,897,000, and $52,719,000, respectively. The balance of the cumulative translation adjustment will be reclassified
to earnings when the hedged investment is sold or substantially liquidated.
Derivative Contracts Undesignated
We use foreign currency exchange contracts to manage existing exposures to foreign currency exchange risk. Gains and losses
resulting from changes in the fair value of these instruments are recorded in interest expense on the Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income, and are substantially offset by net revaluation impacts on foreign currency denominated balance sheet
exposures. In addition, we have several interest rate cap contracts related to variable rate secured debt agreements. Gains and losses
resulting from the changes in the fair values of these instruments are also recorded in interest expense.
The following presents the notional amount of derivatives and other financial instruments as of the dates indicated (in
thousands):
  December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
Derivatives designated as net investment hedges:    
Denominated in Canadian Dollars  $ 725,000 $ 575,000
Denominated in Pounds Sterling  £ 1,340,708 £ 890,708
Financial instruments designated as net investment hedges:    
Denominated in Canadian Dollars  $ 250,000 $ 250,000
Denominated in Pounds Sterling  £ 1,050,000 £ 1,050,000
Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges:    
Denominated in U.S. Dollars(1) $ 1,188,250 $ —
Derivative instruments not designated:    
Interest rate caps denominated in U.S. Dollars  $ 405,819 $ 405,819
Forward purchase contracts denominated in Canadian Dollars  $ — $ (325,000 )
Forward sales contracts denominated in Canadian Dollars  $ — $ 405,000
Forward purchase contracts denominated in Pounds Sterling  £ (125,000 )£ (350,000 )
Forward sales contracts denominated in Pounds Sterling  £ 125,000 £ 350,000
(1) At December 31, 2019 the maximum maturity date was July 15, 2021.
83
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following presents the impact of derivative instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the
periods presented (in thousands):
  Year Ended
 Location December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
Gain (loss) on derivative instruments designated as
hedges recognized in income
Interest expense $ 26,419 $ 12,271 $ (2,476)
Gain (loss) on derivative instruments not designated
as hedges recognized in income Interest expense $ (2,310) $ 5,233 $ (49)
Gain (loss) on derivative and financial instruments
designated as hedges recognized in OCI
OCI $ (131,120) $ 211,390 $ (252,168)
13. Commitments and Contingencies
At December 31, 2019, we had 13 outstanding letter of credit obligations totaling $47,180,000 and expiring between 2020 and
2024. At December 31, 2019, we had outstanding construction in process of $507,931,000 and were committed to providing
additional funds of approximately $446,633,000 to complete construction. Purchase obligations at December 31, 2019, include
$261,000,000 representing a definitive agreement to acquire outpatient medical facilities in 2020. Purchase obligations also include
$19,925,000 of contingent obligations to fund capital improvements. Rents due from the tenant are increased to reflect the
additional investment in the property. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we finalized an agreement with the University of
Toledo Foundation to transfer our corporate headquarters as a gift and recognized an expense of $40,730,000.
14. Stockholders’ Equity 
The following is a summary of our stockholders’ equity capital accounts as of the dates indicated:
  December 31, 2019  December 31, 2018
Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value:     
Authorized shares  50,000,000  50,000,000
Issued shares  — 14,375,000
Outstanding shares  — 14,369,965
Common Stock, $1.00 par value:     
Authorized shares  700,000,000  700,000,000
Issued shares  411,550,857  384,849,236
Outstanding shares  410,256,615  383,674,603
Preferred Stock  
The following is a summary of our preferred stock activity during the periods presented:
  Year Ended
  December 31, 2019  December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
   Weighted Avg.    Weighted Avg.   Weighted Avg.
  Shares Dividend Rate  Shares  Dividend Rate Shares  Dividend Rate
Beginning balance  14,369,965 6.50%  14,370,060  6.50% 25,875,000  6.50%
Shares redeemed  — —%  — —% (11,500,000 ) 6.50%
Shares converted  (14,369,965 ) 6.50%  (95) 6.50% (4,940 ) 6.50%
Ending balance  — —%  14,369,965  6.50% 14,370,060  6.50%
During the year ended December 31, 2019, we converted all of the outstanding Series I Preferred Stock. Each share was
converted into 0.8857 shares of common stock. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized a charge of
$9,769,000 in connection with the redemption of the Series J preferred stock.
Common Stock
In February 2019, we entered into separate amended and restated equity distribution agreements whereby we can offer and sell
up to $1,500,000,000 aggregate amount of our common stock ("Equity Shelf Program"). The Equity Shelf Program also allows us
to enter into forward sale agreements. As of December 31, 2019, we had $1,075,537,000 of remaining capacity under the Equity
Shelf Program, which excludes forward sales agreements outstanding for the sale of 4,935,804 shares with maturity dates in 2020
and 2021. We expect to physically settle the forward sales for cash proceeds. The following is a summary of our common stock
activity during the periods indicated (dollars in thousands, except average price amounts):
84
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  Shares Issued  Average Price  Gross Proceeds  Net Proceeds
2017 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances  5,640,008  $ 70.13  $ 395,526  $ 394,639
2017 Option exercises  252,979  51.16  12,942  12,942
2017 Equity Shelf Program issuances  2,986,574  72.30  215,917  214,406
2017 Preferred stock conversions  4,300   — —
2017 Redemption of equity membership units  91,180   — —
2017 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures  154,337   — —
2017 Totals  9,129,378   $ 624,385  $ 621,987
2018 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances  6,529,417  $ 65.55  $ 428,009  $ 423,075
2018 Option exercises  56,960  42.66  2,430  2,430
2018 Equity Shelf Program issuances  5,241,349  69.95  366,640  364,070
2018 Preferred stock conversions  83  — —
2018 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures  115,243   — —
2018 Totals  11,943,052   $ 797,079  $ 789,575
2019 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances  5,798,979  $ 77.18  $ 447,559  $ 443,929
2019 Option exercises  10,736  51.32  551  551
2019 Equity Shelf Program issuances  7,855,956  78.15  613,948  611,645
2019 Preferred stock conversions  12,712,452   — —
2019 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures  203,889   — —
2019 Totals  26,582,012   $ 1,062,058  $ 1,056,125
Dividends 
The increase in dividends is primarily attributable to increases in our common shares outstanding, offset by the conversion and
redemption of the Series I and Series J preferred stock, as described above. Please refer to Note 19 for information related to federal
income tax of dividends. The following is a summary of our dividend payments (in thousands, except per share amounts):
  Year Ended
  December 31, 2019  December 31, 2018  December 31, 2017
   Per Share  Amount  Per Share  Amount  Per Share Amount
Common Stock  $ 3.4800  $ 1,404,977  $ 3.4800  $ 1,300,141  $ 3.4800 $ 1,277,321
Series I Preferred Stock  — — 3.2500  46,704  3.2500 46,71 1
Series J Preferred Stock  — — — — 0.2347 2,699
Totals   $ 1,404,977   $ 1,346,845   $ 1,326,731
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
The following is a summary of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) for the periods presented (in thousands):
  December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
Foreign currency translation  $ (719,814 )$ (868,006 )
Derivative and financial instruments designated as hedges  607,657 738,777
Actuarial losses  — (540)
Total accumulated other comprehensive loss  $ (112,157 )$ (129,769 )
15. Stock Incentive Plans
In May 2016, our shareholders approved the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (“2016 Plan”), which authorized up to 10,000,000
shares of common stock to be issued at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Awards granted
after May 5, 2016 are issued out of the 2016 Plan. The awards granted under the Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive
Plan continue to vest and options expire ten years from the date of grant. Our non-employee directors, officers and key employees
are eligible to participate in the 2016 Plan. The 2016 Plan allows for the issuance of, among other things, stock options, stock
appreciation rights, restricted stock, deferred stock units and dividend equivalent rights. Vesting periods for options, deferred stock
units and restricted shares generally range from three to five years.
Under our long-term incentive plan, certain restricted stock awards are market, performance and time-based. For market and
performance based awards, we will grant a target number of restricted stock units, with the ultimate award determined by the total
85
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
shareholder return and operating performance metrics, measured in each case over a measurement period of two to three
years. Generally awards vest over two to three years after the end of the performance period with a portion vesting immediately at
the end of the performance periods. The expected term represents the period from the grant date to the end of the performance
period. Compensation expense for these performance grants is measured based on the probability of achievement of certain
performance goals and is recognized over both the performance period and vesting period. For the portion of the grant for which
the award is determined by the operating performance metrics, the compensation cost is based on the grant date closing price and
management’s estimate of corporate achievement of the financial metrics. If the estimated number of performance based restricted
stock to be earned changes, an adjustment will be recorded to recognize the accumulated difference between the revised and
previous estimates. For the portion of the grant determined by the total shareholder return, management used a Monte Carlo model
to assess the fair value and compensation cost. Forfeitures are accounted for as they occur.
The following table summarizes compensation expense (a component of general and administrative expenses and property
operating expenses) recognized for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2019  2018 2017
Stock options $ — $ — $ 10
Restricted stock 25,047  27,646 19,092
 $ 25,047  $ 27,646 $ 19,102
Restricted Stock
The fair value of the restricted stock is equal to the market price of the company’s common stock on the date of grant and is
amortized over the vesting periods. As of December 31, 2019, there was $30,755,000 of total unrecognized compensation expense
related to unvested restricted stock that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of two years. The following
table summarizes information about non-vested restricted stock incentive awards as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019: 
 Restricted Stock
 Number of Shares (000's)  Weighted-A verage
Grant Date Fair Value
Non-vested at December 31, 2018 1,220  $ 62.56
Vested (364) 52.15
Granted 367  85.80
Terminated (117) 66.25
Non-vested at December 31, 2019 1,106  $ 70.26
 
16. Earnings Per Share
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (in thousands, except per share data):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2019  2018 2017
Numerator for basic and diluted earnings per share -   
net income attributable to common stockholders $ 1,232,432  $ 758,250 $ 463,595
   
Denominator for basic earnings per share - weighted average shares 401,845  373,620 367,237
Effect of dilutive securities:   
Employee stock options — 9 47
Non-vested restricted shares 835  512 482
Redeemable shares 1,112 1,096 1,235
Employee stock purchase program 16 13 —
Dilutive potential common shares 1,963  1,630 1,764
Denominator for diluted earnings per share - adjusted weighted average shares 403,808  375,250 369,001
   
Basic earnings per share $ 3.07  $ 2.03 $ 1.26
Diluted earnings per share $ 3.05  $ 2.02 $ 1.26
As of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Series I Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock were excluded
from the calculations as the effect of the conversions were anti-dilutive. As of December 31, 2019, forward sales agreements
outstanding for the sale of 4,935,804 shares of common stock were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share
because such forward sales were anti-dilutive for the period.
86
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17. Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the
principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the
measurement date. A three-level valuation hierarchy exists for disclosures of fair value measurements based upon the transparency
of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date. A financial instrument's categorization within the
valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The three levels are
defined below:
• Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level 2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in
markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for
substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. 
• Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of
the assets or liabilities. 
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is
practicable to estimate that value: 
Mortgage Loans, Other Real Estate Loans and Non Real Estate Loans Receivable — The fair value of mortgage loans, other real
estate loans and non real estate loans receivable is generally estimated by using Level 2 and Level 3 inputs such as discounting the
estimated future cash flows using the current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings
and for the same remaining maturities. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash — The carrying amount approximates fair value. 
Equity Securities — Equity securities are recorded at their fair value based on Level 1 publicly available trading prices. 
Borrowings Under Primary Unsecured Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Program — The carrying amount of the primary
unsecured credit facility and commercial paper program approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate
adjustable. 
Senior Unsecured Notes — The fair value of the senior unsecured notes payable was estimated based on Level 1 publicly available
trading prices. The carrying amount of the variable rate senior unsecured notes approximates fair value because they are interest
rate adjustable. 
Secured Debt — The fair value of fixed rate secured debt is estimated using Level 2 inputs by discounting the estimated future cash
flows using the current rates at which similar loans would be made with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining
maturities. The carrying amount of variable rate secured debt approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate
adjustable. 
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts, Interest Rate Swaps and Cross Currency Swaps — Foreign currency forward contracts,
interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps are recorded in other assets or other liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value that is
derived from observable market data, including yield curves and foreign exchange rates (all of our derivative instruments are Level
2).  
Redeemable OP Unitholder Interests — Our redeemable OP unitholder interests are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value
using Level 2 inputs. The fair value is measured using the closing price of our common stock, as units may be redeemed at the
election of the holder for cash or, at our option, one share of our common stock per unit, subject to adjustment in certain
circumstances. 
87
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our financial instruments are as follows as of the dates presented (in
thousands):
  December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
  Carrying Fair Carrying  Fair
  Amount Value Amount  Value
Financial assets:       
Mortgage loans receivable  $ 145,686 $ 150,217 $ 249,071  $ 257,337
Other real estate loans receivable  124,696 128,512 81,268  82,742
Equity securities  15,685 15,685 11,286  11,286
Cash and cash equivalents  284,917 284,917 215,376  215,376
Restricted cash  100,849 100,849 100,753  100,753
Non real estate loans receivable  336,854 379,239 282,443  384,150
Foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps
and cross currency swaps  18,554 18,554 94,729  94,729
Financial liabilities:     
Borrowings under unsecured credit facility and
commercial paper  $ 1,587,597 $ 1,587,597 $ 1,147,000  $ 1,147,000
Senior unsecured notes  10,336,513 11,400,571 9,603,299  10,043,797
Secured debt  2,990,962 3,041,893 2,476,177  2,499,130
Foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps
and cross currency swaps  53,601 53,601 71,109  71,109
Redeemable OP  unitholder interests  $ 121,440 $ 121,440 $ 103,071  $ 103,071
Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 
The market approach is utilized to measure fair value for our financial assets and liabilities reported at fair value on a recurring
basis. The market approach uses prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or
comparable assets or liabilities. The following summarizes items measured at fair value on a recurring basis (in thousands):
  Fair Value Measurements as of December 31, 2019
  Total  Level 1  Level 2 Level 3
Equity securities  $ 15,685  $ 15,685  $ — $ —
Foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps and
cross currency swaps, net asset (liability)(1) (35,047 ) — (35,047 ) —
Redeemable OP  unitholder interests  121,440  — 121,440 —
Totals  $ 102,078  $ 15,685  $ 86,393 $ —
(1) Please see Note 12 for additional information.
Items Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis 
In addition to items that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, we have assets and liabilities that are measured at fair
value on a nonrecurring basis that are not included in the tables above. Assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interests that are
measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include those acquired or assumed. Asset impairments (if applicable, see Note 5 for
impairments of real property and Note 7 for impairments of real estate loans receivable) are also measured at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis. We have determined that the fair value measurements included in each of these assets and liabilities rely
primarily on company-specific inputs and our assumptions about the use of the assets and settlement of liabilities, as observable
inputs are not available. As such, we have determined that each of these fair value measurements generally resides within Level 3
of the fair value hierarchy. We estimate the fair value of real estate and related intangibles using the income approach using
unobservable data such as net operating income, estimated capitalization and discount rates. We also consider local and national
industry market data including comparable sales, and commonly engage an external real estate appraiser to assist us in our
estimation of fair value. We estimate the fair value of assets held for sale based on current sales price expectations or, in the absence
of such price expectations, Level 3 inputs described above. We estimate the fair value of loans receivable using projected payoff
valuations based on the expected future cash flows and/or the estimated fair value of collateral, net of sales costs, if the repayment
of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the collateral. We estimate the fair value of secured debt assumed in asset
acquisitions using current interest rates at which similar borrowings could be obtained on the transaction date. 
18. Segment Reporting
We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate. We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three
operating segments: Seniors Housing Operating, Triple-net and Outpatient Medical. Our Seniors Housing Operating properties
include seniors apartments, assisted living, independent living/continuing care retirement communities, independent support living
(Canada), care homes with and without nursing (U.K.) and combinations thereof that are owned and/or operated through RIDEA
structures (see Note 19). Our Triple-net properties include the property types described above as well as long-term/post-acute care
facilities. Under the Triple-net segment, we invest in seniors housing and health care real estate through acquisition and financing
of primarily single tenant properties. Properties acquired are primarily leased under triple-net leases and we are not involved in the
management of the property. Our Outpatient Medical properties include outpatient medical buildings which are typically leased to
multiple tenants and generally require a certain level of property management by us.
We evaluate performance based upon NOI of each segment. We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements,
less property operating expenses. We believe NOI provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the
operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI to make decisions about
resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties.
Non-segment revenue consists mainly of interest income on certain non-real estate investments and other income. Non-segment
assets consist of corporate assets including cash, deferred loan expenses and corporate offices and equipment among others. Non-
property specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to individual segments in determining NOI.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies (see
Note 2). The results of operations for all acquisitions described in Note 3 are included in our consolidated results of operations from
the acquisition dates and are components of the appropriate segments. There are no intersegment sales or transfers.
Summary information for the reportable segments (which excludes unconsolidated entities) during the years ended December 31,
2019, 2018 and 2017 is as follows (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31, 2019:  Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net  Outpatient
Medical  Non-segment /
Corporate Total
Resident fees and services  $ 3,448,175 $ — $ — $ — $ 3,448,175
Rental income  — 903,798  684,602  — 1,588,400
Interest income  36 62,599  1,195  — 63,830
Other income  8,658 6,246  2,031  3,966 20,901
Total revenues  3,456,869 972,643  687,828  3,966 5,121,306
      
Property operating expenses  2,417,349 53,900  218,793  — 2,690,042
Consolidated net operating income  1,039,520 918,743  469,035  3,966 2,431,264
      
Depreciation and amortization  553,189 232,626  241,258  — 1,027,073
Interest expense  67,983 12,892  13,41 1 461,273 555,559
General and administrative expenses  — — — 126,549 126,549
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial
instruments, net  — (4,399 ) — — (4,399 )
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt,
net  1,614 — — 82,541 84,155
Provision for loan losses  — 18,690  — — 18,690
Impairment of assets  2,145 11,926  14,062  — 28,133
Other expenses  26,348 13,771  1,788  10,705 52,612
Income (loss) from continuing operations
before income taxes and other items  388,241 633,237  198,516  (677,102 ) 542,892
Income tax (expense) benefit  6,246 (4,209 ) (2,710 ) (2,284 ) (2,957 )
(Loss) income from unconsolidated
entities  12,388 22,985  7,061  — 42,434
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions,
net  528,747 218,322  972  — 748,041
Income (loss) from continuing operations  935,622 870,335  203,839  (679,386 ) 1,330,410
Net income (loss)  $ 935,622 $ 870,335  $ 203,839  $ (679,386 )$ 1,330,410
      
Total assets  $ 15,784,898 $ 9,434,817  $ 7,991,521  $ 169,515 $ 33,380,751
88
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year Ended December 31, 2018:Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net  Outpatient
MedicalNon-segment /
Corporate Total
Resident fees and services $ 3,234,852 $ — $ — $ — $ 3,234,852
Rental income — 828,865  551,557 — 1,380,422
Interest income 578 54,926  310 — 55,814
Other income 5,024 17,173  4,939 2,275 29,41 1
Total revenues 3,240,454 900,964  556,806 2,275 4,700,499
   
Property operating expenses 2,255,432 915  176,670 — 2,433,017
Consolidated net operating income 985,022 900,049  380,136 2,275 2,267,482
   
Depreciation and amortization 529,449 235,480  185,530 — 950,459
Interest expense 69,060 14,225  7,051 436,256 526,592
General and administrative expenses — — — 126,383 126,383
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial
instruments, net — (4,016 ) — — (4,016 )
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt,
net 110 (32) 11,928 4,091 16,097
Impairment of assets 7,599 107,980  — — 115,579
Other expenses 6,624 90,975(1) 7,570 7,729 112,898
Income (loss) from continuing
operations before income taxes and
other items 372,180 455,437  168,057 (572,184 ) 423,490
Income tax (expense) benefit 1,202 1,611 (125) (11,362 ) (8,674 )
(Loss) income from unconsolidated
entities (28,142 ) 21,938  5,563 — (641)
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions,
net (2,245 ) 196,589  221,231 — 415,575
Income (loss) from continuing
operations 342,995 675,575  394,726 (583,546 ) 829,750
Net income (loss) $ 342,995 $ 675,575  $ 394,726 $ (583,546 )$ 829,750
   
Total assets $ 14,607,127 $ 10,111,227  $ 5,426,810 $ 196,908 $ 30,342,072
(1) Repre sents non-capitalizable transaction costs of $81,116,000  primar ily related to a joint venture transaction with an existing seniors housing
operator inclu ding the conversion of properties from Triple-net to Seniors Housing Operating and termination/restructuring of preexisting
relationships.
89
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year Ended December 31, 2017:Seniors Housing
Operating  Triple-net  Outpatient
Medical  Non-segment /
Corporate Total
Resident fees and services $ 2,779,423  $ — $ — $ — $ 2,779,423
Rental income — 885,81 1 560,060  — 1,445,871
Interest income 69 73,742  — — 73,81 1
Other income 5,127  7,531  3,340  1,538 17,536
Total revenues 2,784,619 967,084  563,400  1,538 4,316,641
     
Property operating expenses 1,904,593  — 179,332  — 2,083,925
Consolidated net operating income 880,026 967,084  384,068  1,538 2,232,716
     
Depreciation and amortization 484,796  243,830  193,094  — 921,720
Interest expense 63,265  15,194  10,015  396,148 484,622
General and administrative — — — 122,008 122,008
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial
instruments, net — 2,284  — — 2,284
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt,
net 3,785  29,083  4,373  — 37,241
Provision for loan losses — 62,966  — — 62,966
Impairment of assets 21,949  96,909  5,625  — 124,483
Other expenses 8,347  116,689(1) 1,911 50,829(2) 177,776
Income (loss) from continuing
operations before income taxes and
other items 297,884 400,129  169,050  (567,447 ) 299,616
Income tax (expense) benefit (16,430 ) (4,291 ) (1,477 ) 2,070 (20,128 )
(Loss) income from unconsolidated
entities (105,236 ) 19,428  2,683  — (83,125 )
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions,
net 56,295  286,325  1,630  — 344,250
Income (loss) from continuing
operations 232,513 701,591  171,886  (565,377 ) 540,613
Net income (loss) $ 232,513 $ 701,591  $ 171,886  $ (565,377 ) $ 540,613
(1) Primarily represents non-capitalizable transaction costs, including $88,316,000 due to a joint venture transaction with an existing seniors housing operator which
converted a portfolio of properties from Triple-net to Seniors Housing Operating and termination/restructuring of preexisting relationships. Also includes
$18,294,000 other-than-temporary impairment charge on the Genesis available-for-sale equity investment.
(2) Primarily related to $40,730,000 expense recognized for the donation of the corporate headquarters.
Our portfolio of properties and other investments are located in the U.S., the U.K. and Canada. Revenues and assets are attributed
to the country in which the property is physically located. The following is a summary of geographic information for the periods
presented (dollars in thousands):
  Year Ended
  December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
Revenues:  Amount(1) % Amount % Amount  %
United States  $ 4,205,492  82.1%$ 3,777,960 80.4%$ 3,464,527  80.3%
United Kingdom  452,698  8.8% 452,956 9.6% 407,351  9.4%
Canada  463,1 16 9.1% 469,583 10.0% 444,763  10.3%
Total  $ 5,121,306  100.0 %$ 4,700,499 100.0 %$ 4,316,641  100.0 %
        
  As of    
  December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018    
Assets:  Amount  % Amount %    
United States  $ 27,513,91 1 82.4%$ 24,884,292 82.0%   
United Kingdom  3,405,388  10.2% 3,078,994 10.1%   
Canada  2,461,452  7.4% 2,378,786 7.9%   
Total  $ 33,380,751  100.0 %$ 30,342,072 100.0 %   
 
(1) The United States, United Kingdom and Canada represent 77%, 10% and 13%, respectively, of our resident fees and services revenue stream for the year ended
December 31, 2019.
90
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19. Income Taxes and Distributions 
We elected to be taxed as a REIT commencing with our first taxable year. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes,
at least 90% of taxable income (excluding net capital gains) must be distributed to stockholders. REITs that do not distribute a
certain amount of current year taxable income are also subject to a 4% federal excise tax. The main differences between net income
for federal income tax purposes and consolidated financial statement purposes are the recognition of straight-line rent for reporting
purposes, basis differences in acquisitions, recording of impairments, differing useful lives and depreciation and amortization
methods for real property and the provision for loan losses for reporting purposes versus bad debt expense for tax purposes. 
Cash distributions paid to common stockholders, for federal income tax purposes, are as follows for the periods presented:
 Year Ended December 31,
 2019  2018 2017
Per share:   
Ordinary dividend(1)$ 2.6937  $ 2.1988 $ 1.8117
Long-term capital gain/(loss)(2)0.7863  1.1153 1.5755
Return of capital — 0.1659 0.0928
Totals $ 3.4800  $ 3.4800 $ 3.4800
(1) For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, includes Section 199A dividends of $2.6937 and $2.1988, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2017,
includes Qualified Dividend of $0.0038.
(2) For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, includes Unrecaptured SEC. 1250 Gains of $0.2835, $0.3822 and $0.3557, respectively.
Our consolidated provision for income tax expense (benefit) is as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2019  2018 2017
Current $ 12,594  $ 15,850 $ 7,633
Deferred (9,637 ) (7,176 ) 12,495
Totals $ 2,957  $ 8,674 $ 20,128
REITs generally are not subject to U.S. federal income taxes on that portion of REIT taxable income or capital gain that is
distributed to stockholders. For the tax year ended December 31, 2019, as a result of ownership of investments in Canada and the
U.K., we were subject to foreign income taxes under the respective tax laws of these jurisdictions. 
The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily relates to state taxes, foreign taxes, and taxes
based on income generated by entities that are structured as TRSs. For the tax years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, the
foreign tax provision/(benefit) amount included in the consolidated provision for income taxes was $(3,892,000), $9,804,000 and
$4,806,000, respectively.
A reconciliation of income taxes, which is computed by applying the federal corporate tax rate for the years ended December 31,
2019, 2018 and 2017, to the income tax expense/(benefit) is as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2019  2018  2017
Tax at statutory rate on earnings from continuing operations before
unconsolidated entities, noncontrolling interests and income taxes $ 280,005  $ 176,069  $ 199,588
Increase (decrease) in valuation allowance(1)3,465  28,309  30,445
Tax at statutory rate on earnings not subject to federal income taxes (311,224 ) (206,937 ) (234,468 )
Foreign permanent depreciation 9,260  8,110 10,065
Other dif ferences 21,451  3,123  14,498
Totals $ 2,957  $ 8,674  $ 20,128
(1) Excluding purchase price accounting.
Each TRS and foreign entity subject to income taxes is a tax paying component for purposes of classifying deferred tax assets
and liabilities. The tax effects of taxable and deductible temporary differences, as well as tax asset/(liability) attributes, are
summarized as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
91
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Year Ended December 31,
 2019  2018 2017
Investments and property , primarily dif ferences in investment basis,
depreciation and amortization, the basis of land assets and the treatment of
interests and certain costs $ (13,064 ) $ (2,533 )$ (11,812 )
Operating loss and interest deduction carryforwards 127,525  98,713 94,654
Expense accruals and other 43,056  48,804 25,146
Valuation allowance (159,057 ) (155,592 ) (127,283 )
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) $ (1,540 ) $ (10,608 )$ (19,295 )
On the basis of the evaluations performed as required by the codification, valuation allowances totaling $159,057,000 were
recorded on U.S. taxable REIT subsidiaries as well as entities in other jurisdictions to limit the deferred tax assets to the amount
that we believe is more likely that not realizable. However, the amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be
adjusted if (i) estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced or increased or (ii) objective negative
evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no longer present (and additional weight may be given to subjective evidence such as
our projections for growth). The valuation allowance rollforward is summarized as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2019  2018 2017
Beginning balance $ 155,592  $ 127,283 $ 96,838
Expense (benefit) 3,465  28,309 30,445
Ending balance $ 159,057  $ 155,592 $ 127,283
As a result of certain acquisitions, we are subject to corporate level taxes for any related asset dispositions that may occur during
the five-year period immediately after such assets were owned by a C corporation (“built-in gains tax”). The amount of income
potentially subject to this special corporate level tax is generally equal to the lesser of (i) the excess of the fair value of the asset
over its adjusted tax basis as of the date it became a REIT asset, or (ii) the actual amount of gain. Some but not all gains recognized
during this period of time could be offset by available net operating losses and capital loss carryforwards. During the year ended
December 31, 2017, we acquired certain additional assets with built-in gains as of the date of acquisition that could be subject to
the built-in gains tax if disposed of prior to the expiration of the applicable five-year period. We have not recorded a deferred tax
liability as a result of the potential built-in gains tax based on our intentions with respect to such properties and available tax
planning strategies. 
Given the applicable statute of limitations, we generally are subject to audit by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the year
ended December 31, 2016 and subsequent years. The statute of limitations may vary in the states in which we own properties or
conduct business. We do not expect to be subject to audit by state taxing authorities for any year prior to the year ended December
31, 2015. We are also subject to audit by the Canada Revenue Agency and provincial authorities generally for periods subsequent to
May 2013 related to entities acquired or formed in connection with acquisitions, and by the U.K.’s HM Revenue & Customs for
periods subsequent to August 2013 related to entities acquired or formed in connection with acquisitions. 
At December 31, 2019, we had a net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforward related to the REIT of $337,287,000. Due to our
uncertainty regarding the realization of certain deferred tax assets, we have not recorded a deferred tax asset related to NOLs
generated by the REIT. These amounts can be used to offset future taxable income (and/or taxable income for prior years if an audit
determines that tax is owed), if any. The REIT will be entitled to utilize NOLs and tax credit carryforwards only to the extent that
REIT taxable income exceeds our deduction for dividends paid. The NOL carryforwards generated through December 31, 2017
will expire through 2037. Beginning with tax years after December 31, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act eliminates the carryback
period, limits the NOLs to 80% of taxable income and replaces the 20-year carryforward period with an indefinite carryforward
period. 
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had an NOL carryforward related to Canadian entities of $195,791,000, and $154,029,000,
respectively. These Canadian losses have a 20-year carryforward period. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had an NOL
carryforward related to U.K. entities of $209,776,000 and $242,377,000, respectively. These U.K. losses do not have a finite
carryforward period. 
92
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20. Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited) 
The following is a summary of our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in
thousands, except per share data). The sum of individual quarterly amounts may not agree to the annual amounts included in the
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income due to rounding.
  Year Ended December 31, 2019
  1st Quarter 2nd Quarter  3rd Quarter 4th Quarter
Revenues  $ 1,272,245 $ 1,320,106  $ 1,266,133 $ 1,262,822
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders  280,470 137,762  589,876 224,324
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders per share:    
Basic  $ 0.72 $ 0.34  $ 1.46 $ 0.55
Diluted  $ 0.71 $ 0.34  $ 1.45 $ 0.55
  Year Ended December 31, 2018
  1st Quarter 2nd Quarter  3rd Quarter 4th Quarter
Revenues  $ 1,096,965 $ 1,125,912  $ 1,236,379 $ 1,241,243
Net income attributable to common stockholders  437,671 154,432  64,384 101,763
Net income attributable to common stockholders per share:    
Basic  $ 1.18 $ 0.42  $ 0.17 $ 0.27
Diluted  $ 1.17 $ 0.41  $ 0.17 $ 0.27
21. Variable Interest Entities 
We have entered into joint ventures to own certain seniors housing and outpatient medical assets which are deemed to be variable
interest entities (“VIEs”). We have concluded that we are the primary beneficiary of these VIEs based on a combination of
operational control of the joint venture and the rights to receive residual returns or the obligation to absorb losses arising from the
joint ventures. Except for capital contributions associated with the initial joint venture formations, the joint ventures have been and
are expected to be funded from the ongoing operations of the underlying properties. Accordingly, such joint ventures have been
consolidated, and the table below summarizes the balance sheets of consolidated VIEs in the aggregate (in thousands):
 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
Assets:  
Net real estate investments $ 960,093 $ 973,813
Cash and cash equivalents 27,522 18,678
Receivables and other assets 14,586 14,600
Total assets(1) $ 1,002,201 $ 1,007,091
Liabilities and equity:  
Secured debt $ 460,1 17 $ 465,433
Lease liabilities 1,326 —
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 22,215 18,229
Total equity 518,543 523,429
Total liabilities and equity $ 1,002,201 $ 1,007,091
 
(1) Note that assets of the consolidated VIEs can only be used to settle obligations relating to such VIEs. Liabilities of the consolidated VIEs represent claims against
the specific assets of the VIEs.
93
Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
Not applicable.
Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
An evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on
that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were
effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The Company’s internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019
based on the criteria established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) in
a report entitled Internal Control — Integrated Framework.
Based on this assessment, using the criteria above, management concluded that the Company’s system of internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2019.
The independent registered public accounting firm of Ernst & Young LLP, as auditors of the Company’s consolidated financial
statements, has issued an attestation report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
No change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended) occurred during the fourth quarter of the one-year period covered by this report that materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
94
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Welltower Inc. 
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on
criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company)
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on the COSO
criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)
(PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the related
consolidated statements of comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2019, and the related notes and financial statement schedules listed in the index at Item 15(a) and our report dated
February 14, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
/s/  Ernst & Young LLP
 
Toledo, Ohio
February 14, 2020
95
Item 9B. Other Information
None.
96
PART III 
Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Election of
Directors,” “Corporate Governance,” “Executive Officers,” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain
Beneficial Owners — Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) prior to May 1, 2020. 
We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our directors, officers and employees. The code is posted
on the Internet at www.welltower.com/investors/governance. Any amendment to, or waivers from, the code that relate to any officer
or director of the company will be promptly disclosed on the Internet at www.welltower.com. 
In addition, the Board has adopted charters for the Audit, Compensation and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees.
These charters are posted on the Internet at www.welltower.com/investors/governance.  Please refer to “Item 7 – Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Executive Summary – Corporate Governance” in the
Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of corporate governance. 
The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is
included as an inactive textual reference only. 
Item 11.  Executive Compensation 
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Executive
Compensation” and “Director Compensation” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to
May 1, 2020.
Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Security
Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in our
definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to May 1, 2020.
Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Corporate
Governance — Independence and Meetings” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain Beneficial
Owners — Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the
Commission prior to May 1, 2020.
Item 14.  Principal Accounting Fees and Services
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the heading “Ratification of
the Appointment of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with
the Commission prior to May 1, 2020.
97
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
1. (i)     Our Consolidated Financial Statements are included in Part II, Item 8:  
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 61
Consolidated Balance Sheets – December 31, 2019 and 2018 63
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income — Years ended December 31, 2019, 2018
and 201764
Consolidated Statements of Equity — Years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 66
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows — Years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 67
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 68
 
(ii)    The following Financial Statement Schedules are included beginning on page 105
III – Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
IV – Mortgage Loans on Real Estate 
The financial statement schedule required by Item15(a) (Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts) is included in
Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
2.     Exhibits:
The exhibits listed below are either filed with this Form 10-K or incorporated by reference in accordance with Rule 12b-
32 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 25, 2018, by and among the Company, Potomac Acquisition LLC,
Quality Care Properties, Inc. and certain subsidiaries of Quality Care Properties, Inc. (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 26, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
3.1(a)     Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s
Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(b)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
3.1(c)      Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed June 13, 2003 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
3.1(d)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.9 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 9, 2007 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
3.1(e)      Certificate of Change of Location of Registered Office and of Registered Agent of the Company (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 6, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).
3.1(f)      Certificate of Designation of 6.50% Series I Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock of the Company (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 7, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(g)      Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 10, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
3.1(h)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 6, 2014 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
3.1(i)       Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 30, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).
3.2 Seventh Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s
Form 8-K filed May 6, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(a)     Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 15, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(b)     Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of March 15, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 15, 2010 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(c)      Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of June 18, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
June 18, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(d)     Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of April 7, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 7, 2010 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(e)      Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of June 8, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
June 8, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
98
4.1(f)      Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of September 10, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 13, 2010
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(g)      Supplemental Indenture No. 4, dated as of November 16, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 16,
2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(h)     Supplemental Indenture No. 5, dated as of March 14, 2011, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 14, 2011 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(i)       Supplemental Indenture No. 6, dated as of April 3, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 4, 2012 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(j)      Supplemental Indenture No. 7, dated as of December 6, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed December 11, 2012
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(k)     Supplemental Indenture No. 8, dated as of October 7, 2013, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed October 9, 2013 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).  
4.1(l)       Supplemental Indenture No. 9, dated as of November 20, 2013, between the Company and The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 20,
2013 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(m)    Supplemental Indenture No. 10, dated as of November 25, 2014, between the Company and The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 25,
2014 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(n)     Supplemental Indenture No. 11, dated as of May 26, 2015, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 27, 2015 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(o)     Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 11, dated as of October 19, 2015, between the Company and The Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
October 20, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(p)     Supplemental Indenture No. 12, dated as of March 1, 2016, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 3, 2016 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(q)Supplemental Indenture No. 13, dated as of April 10, 2018, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 10, 2018 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(r)Supplemental Indenture No. 14, dated as of August 16, 2018, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed August 16, 2018 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(s)Supplemental Indenture No. 15, dated as of February 15, 2019 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed February 15, 2019 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(t)Supplemental Indenture No. 16, dated as of August 19, 2019, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Form 8-K filed August 19, 2019 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
99
4.1(u)Supplemental Indenture No. 17, dated as of December 16, 2019, between the Company and The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed December 16,
2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.2          Form of Indenture for Senior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s
Form S-3 (File No. 333-2250004) filed May 17, 2018, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.3          Form of Indenture for Junior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s
Form S-3 (File No. 333-2250004) filed May 17, 2018, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.4(a)     Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2015, by and among HCN Canadian Holdings-1 LP, the Company and BNY Trust
Company of Canada (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.5(a) to the Company’s Form 10-K  filed February 18, 2016
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.4(b)     First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2015, by and among HCN Canadian Holdings-1 LP, the
Company and BNY Trust Company of Canada (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.5(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K
filed February 18, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.4(c)Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 20, 2019, by and among HCN Canadian Holdings-1 LP, the
Company and BNY Trust Company of Canada.
4.5 Description of Securities of the Registrant.
10.1(a)Credit Agreement dated as of July 19, 2018 by and among the Company; the lenders listed therein; KeyBank National
Association, as administrative agent, L/C issuer and a swingline lender; Bank of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A., as co-syndication agents; Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as documentation agent; Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities
Inc., as U.S. joint lead arrangers; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and RBC Capital Markets, as Canadian joint lead arrangers; and Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as joint book runners (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed July 24, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
10.1(b)First Amendment, dated April 26, 2019, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of July 19, 2018, by and among the Company;
the lenders listed therein; KeyBank National Association, as administrative agent, L/C issuer and a swingline lender; Bank
of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as co-syndication agents; Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as
documentation agent; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc
Capital Markets Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as U.S. joint lead arrangers; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and RBC Capital Markets, as Canadian
joint lead arrangers; and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as joint
book runners (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed April 30, 2019 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
10.2(a)   Amended and Restated Health Care REIT, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Appendix A
to the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed March 25, 2009 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.2(b)   Form of Stock Option Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive Officers under the 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.2(c)   Form of Stock Option Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive Officers under the Amended and
Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed
May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.2(d)   Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for the Chief Executive Officer under the Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.2(e)   Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for Executive Officers under the Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive
Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
100
10.3(a)   Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated January 3, 2017, between the Company and Thomas J. DeRosa
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4(a) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 22, 2017 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.3(b)   Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Grant Agreement, dated effective as of July 30, 2014, between the Company
and Thomas J. DeRosa (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 4, 2014
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.4 Settlement Agreement, dated September 4, 2019, by and between John A. Goodey and the Company (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 10-Q filed October 30, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*
10.5 Resignation Agreement, dated July 1, 2019, by and between Mercedes T. Kerr and the Company (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 10-Q filed August 1, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*      
10.6      Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each director, executive officer and officer of the Company
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed February 18, 2005 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.7 Summary of Director Compensation (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Form 10-Q filed August
1, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated by reference thereto).*
10.8(a)Welltower Inc. 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K
filed May 10, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.8(b)Form of Restricted Stock Grant Notice for Executive Officers under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.14(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.8(c)Form of Restricted Stock Grant Notice for Senior Vice Presidents under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.14(c) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.8(d)Form of Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(d) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.9(a)Welltower Inc. 2016-2018 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s
Form 10-Q filed August 2, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.9(b)Form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2016-2018 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 10.15(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.10(a) Welltower Inc. 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s
Form 10-Q filed May 5, 2017 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.10(b) Form of Award Notice under the 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.16(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*
10.10(c) Welltower Inc. 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive Program – Bridge 1 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the
Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 7, 2017 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.10(d) Form of Award Notice under the 2017-2019 Long Term Incentive Program - Bridge 1 (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.16(d) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*
10.10(e) Welltower Inc. 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive Program – Bridge 2 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the
Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 7, 2017 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
101
10.10(f)Form of Award Notice under the 2017-2019 Long Term Incentive Program - Bridge 2 (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.16(f) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*
10.11(a) Welltower Inc. 2018-2020 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.17(a) to the
Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.11(b) Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2018-2020 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.17(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.12(a) Welltower Inc. 2019-2021 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(a) to the
Company's Form 10-K filed February 25, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.12(b) Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2019-2021 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.14(b) to the Company's Form 10-K filed February 25, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.132019 Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Form 10-
Q filed October 30, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.14(a)Welltower Inc. 2020-2022 Long-Term Incentive Program.*
10.14(b) Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2020-2022 Long-Term Incentive Program.*
21           Subsidiaries of the Company.
23           Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm.
24           Powers of Attorney.
31.1        Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.
31.2        Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer.
32.1        Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Executive Officer.
32.2        Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Financial Officer.
101.INS   Inline XBRL Instance Document. The instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL
tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.
101.SCH   Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
101.CAL   Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
101.LAB   Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document
101.PRE    Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
101.DEF    Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
104 The cover page from the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, formatted in
Inline XBRL (included in Exhibit 101)    
                           
 
*  Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.
Item 16.  Form 10-K Summary
None.
102
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
Date:  February 14, 2020
WELLTOWER INC. 
By: /s/  Thomas J. DeRosa                                             
Thomas J. DeRosa,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on February 14, 2020 by
the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated. 
/s/  Jeffrey H. Donahue ** /s/  Kathryn M. Sullivan **
Jeffrey H. Donahue, Lead Director Kathryn M. Sullivan, Director
  
/s/  Kenneth J. Bacon ** /s/  R. Scott Trumbull **
Kenneth J. Bacon, Director R. Scott Trumbull, Director
  
/s/  Karen B. DeSalvo ** /s/  Thomas J. DeRosa **
Karen B. DeSalvo, Director Thomas J. DeRosa, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 (Principal Executive Officer)
 
/s/  Sharon M. Oster ** /s/  Timothy G. McHugh **
Sharon M. Oster, Director Timothy G. McHugh, Senior Vice President and Chief
            Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)
 
/s/  Sergio D. Rivera ** /s/  Joshua T. Fieweger**
Sergio D. Rivera, Director Joshua T. Fieweger, Senior Vice President and
 Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)
/s/  Johnese M. Spisso **
Johnese M. Spisso, Director **By:     /s/  Thomas J. DeRosa          
                            Thomas J. DeRosa, Attorney-in-Fact
 
 
 
103
Welltower Inc.   
Schedule III   
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation   
December 31, 2019   
(Dollars in thousands)   
    Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description  Encumbrances  Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built  Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:                  
Adderbury , UK  $ — $ 2,144  $ 12,549 $ 657 $ 2,230  $ 13,120 $ 1,032  2015 2017  Banbury Road
Albertville, AL  — 170 6,203 489 176 6,686 1,998  2010 1999  151 Woodham Dr .
Albuquerque, NM  — 1,270  20,837 2,653  1,354  23,406 7,255  2010 1984  500 Paisano St NE
Alexandria, VA  — 8,280  50,914 296 8,280  51,210 2,459  2016 2018  5550 Cardinal Place
Altrincham, UK  — 4,244  25,187 3,274  4,565  28,140 6,892  2012 2009  295 Hale Road
Amherst, NY  — 1,131  10,520 806 1,131  11,326 623 2019 2013  1880 Sweet Home Road
Amherstview , ON  — 473 4,446 691 519 5,091 1,019  2015 1974  4567 Bath Road
Anderson, SC  — 710 6,290 878 710 7,168 3,811 2003 1986  311 Simpson Rd.
Ankeny , IA  — 1,129  10,239 — 1,129  10,239 970 2016 2012  1275 SW  State Street
Apple Valley , CA  — 480 16,639 856 486 17,489 5,084  2010 1999  11825 Apple Valley Rd.
Arlington, TX  — 1,660  37,395 3,019  1,660  40,414 10,850  2012 2000  1250 West Pioneer Parkway
Arlington, VA  — 8,385  31,198 15,162  8,386  46,359 13,165  2017 1992  900 N Taylor Street
Arlington, VA  — — 2,338 1,657  5 3,990 259 2018 1992  900 N Taylor Street
Arnprior , ON  — 788 6,283 880 851 7,100 1,783  2013 1991  15 Arthur Street
Atlanta, GA  — 2,058  14,914 2,148  2,080  17,040 12,165  1997 1999  1460 S Johnson Ferry Rd.
Atlanta, GA  — 2,100  20,603 1,824  2,197  22,330 4,829  2014 2000  1000 Lenox Park Blvd NE
Austin, TX  — 880 9,520 1,902  885 11,417 6,144  1999 1998  12429 Scofield Farms Dr .
Austin, TX  — 1,560  21,413 750 1,560  22,163 3,533  2014 2013  11330 Farrah Lane
Austin, TX  — 4,200  74,850 1,287  4,200  76,137 10,166  2015 2014  4310 Bee Caves Road
Bagshot, UK  — 4,960  29,881 6,822  5,340  36,323 8,360  2012 2009  14 - 16 London Road
Banstead, UK  — 6,695  55,113 9,912  7,246  64,474 14,801  2012 2005  Croydon Lane
Basingstoke, UK  — 3,420  18,853 1,958  3,678  20,553 3,155  2014 2012  Grove Road
Basking Ridge, NJ  — 2,356  37,710 1,738  2,395  39,409 9,083  2013 2002  404 King Geor ge Road
Bassett, UK  — 4,874  32,304 8,919  5,255  40,842 10,030  2013 2006  111 Bur gess Road
Bath, UK  — 2,696  11,876 783 2,805  12,550 979 2015 2017  Clarks Way, Rush Hill
Baton Rouge, LA  12,930  790 29,436 1,242  886 30,582 6,912  2013 2009  9351 Siegen Lane
Beaconsfield, UK  — 5,566  50,952 4,746  5,998  55,266 12,416  2013 2009  30-34 Station Road
Beaconsfield, QC  — 1,149  17,484 1,808  1,289  19,152 5,644  2013 2008  505 Elm Avenue
Bee Cave, TX  — 1,820  21,084 632 1,820  21,716 2,694  2016 2014  14058 A Bee Cave Parkway
Bellevue, WA  — 2,800  19,004 2,392  2,816  21,380 6,062  2013 1998  15928 NE 8th Street
Bellingham, WA  — 1,500  19,861 822 1,507  20,676 5,982  2010 1996  4415 Columbine Dr .
Belmont, CA  — — 35,300 2,426  178 37,548 9,080  2013 2002  1010 Alameda de Las Pulgas
Bethel Park, P A  — 1,609  12,989 — 1,609  12,989 259 2019 2019  631 McMurray Road
Bethesda, MD  — — 45,309 1,263  3 46,569 10,744  2013 2009  8300 Burdett Road
Bethesda, MD  — — 45 886 — 931 229 2013 2009  8300 Burdett Road
Bethesda, MD  — — 212 926 — 1,138 480 2013 2009  8300 Burdett Road
Bethesda, MD  — — — 69,690  3,513  66,252 1,421  2016 2018  4925 Battery Lane
(Dollars in thousands)   
   Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period       
Description Encumbrances Land Building &
Improvements Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent Land Building &
Improvements Accumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
Acquired Year
Built Address
to
Acquisition
Seniors Housing
Operating:                  
Birmingham, UK  — 148 18,956  — 148 18,956  4,844  2013  2006  5 Church Road, Edgbaston
Birmingham, UK  — 1,480 13,014  1,302  1,592 14,204  1,211 2015  2016  47 Bristol Road South
Birmingham, UK  — 2,807 11,313  1,598  3,019 12,699  1,038  2015  2016  134 Jockey Road
Blainville, QC  — 2,077 8,902  1,388  2,301 10,066  3,242  2013  2008  50 des Chateaux Boulevard
Bloomfield Hills, MI  — 2,000 35,662  1,413  2,133 36,942  8,446  2013  2009  6790 Telegraph Road
Boca Raton, FL  32,270 6,565 111,247  23,813  6,565 135,060  17,762  2018  1994  6343 Via De Sonrise Del Sur
Boise, ID  — 2,220 18,703  1,830  2,220 20,533  349 2019  1999  10250 W Smoke Ranch Drive
Borehamwood, UK  — 5,367 41,937  4,370  5,810 45,864  10,954  2012  2003  Edgwarebury Lane
Bothell, WA  — 1,350 13,439  6,927  1,798 19,918  3,354  2015  1988  10605 NE 185th Street
Boulder , CO  — 2,994 27,458  2,434  3,064 29,822  8,429  2013  2003  3955 28th Street
Bournemouth, UK  — 5,527 42,547  4,509  5,966 46,617  10,820  2013  2008  42 Belle Vue Road
Braintree, MA  — — 41,290  1,251  100 42,441  10,092  2013  2007  618 Granite Street
Brampton, ON  41,370 10,196 59,989  3,806  10,736 63,255  12,158  2015  2009  100 Ken Whillans Drive
Brandon, MS  — 1,220 10,241  277 1,220 10,518  2,594  2010  1999  140 Castlewoods Blvd
Brick, NJ  — 1,170 17,372  1,752  1,213 19,081  4,778  2010  1998  515 Jack Martin Blvd
Brick, NJ  — 690 17,125  5,803  695 22,923  4,778  2010  1999  1594 Route 88
Bridgewater , NJ  — 1,730 48,201  2,785  1,774 50,942  11,700  2010  1999  2005 Route 22 West
Brockport, NY  — 1,500 23,496  639 1,705 23,930  4,631  2015  1999  90 West Avenue
Brockville, ON  4,375 484 7,445  916 524 8,321  1,480  2015  1996  1026 Bridlewood Drive
Brookfield, WI  — 1,300 12,830  147 1,300 12,977  2,137  2012  2013  1105 Davidson Road
Broomfield, CO  — 4,140 44,547  12,797  10,140 51,344  18,769  2013  2009  400 Summit Blvd
Brossard, QC  10,516 5,499 31,854  2,991  5,720 34,624  7,003  2015  1989  2455 Boulevard Rome
Buckingham, UK  — 2,979 13,880  1,801  3,231 15,429  2,436  2014  1883  Church Street
Buffalo Grove, IL  — 2,850 49,129  3,932  2,850 53,061  12,104  2012  2003  500 McHenry Road
Burbank, CA  — 4,940 43,466  4,101  4,940 47,567  12,013  2012  2002  455 E. Angeleno Avenue
Burbank, CA  18,865 3,610 50,817  4,219  3,610 55,036  7,089  2016  1985  2721 Willow Street
Burke, VA  — — — 52,827  2,575 50,252  1,194  2016  2018  9617 Burke Lake Road
Burleson, TX  — 3,150 10,437  681 3,150 11,118 1,669  2012  2014  621 Old Highway 1 187
Burlingame, CA  — — 62,786  93 — 62,879  7,356  2016  2015  1818 Trousdale Avenue
Burlington, ON  11,513 1,309 19,31 1 1,829  1,413 21,036  5,071  2013  1990  500 Appleby Line
Burlington, MA  — 2,443 34,354  1,645  2,578 35,864  8,967  2013  2005  24 Mall Road
Burlington, WA  — 877 14,938  915 877 15,853  1,085  2019  1999  410 S Norris St
Burlington, WA  — 768 7,619  568 768 8,187  695 2019  1996  210 / 212 N Skagit St
Bushey , UK  — 12,690 36,482  2,005  13,203 37,974  1,554  2015  2018  Elton House, Elton Way
Calgary , AB  11,355 2,252 37,415  3,512  2,424 40,755  10,035  2013  2003  20 Promenade Way SE
Calgary , AB  12,899 2,793 41,179  3,625  2,991 44,606  10,754  2013  1998  80 Edenwold Drive NW
Calgary , AB  10,250 3,122 38,971  3,592  3,358 42,327  10,117 2013  1998  150 Scotia Landing NW
Calgary , AB  21,583 3,431 28,983  3,573  3,680 32,307  6,936  2013  1989  9229 16th Street SW
Calgary , AB  25,255 2,385 36,776  3,595  2,553 40,203  7,071  2015  2006  2220-162nd Avenue SW
Camberley , UK  — 2,654 5,736  20,735  6,091 23,034  1,967  2014  2016  Fernhill Road
Camillus, NY  — 2,064 11,132  766 2,064 11,898  748 2019  2016  3877 Milton Avenue
Cardif f, UK  — 3,191 12,566  2,206  3,457 14,506  4,212  2013  2007  127 Cyncoed Road
Cardif f by the Sea, CA  36,097 5,880 64,71 1 4,838  5,880 69,549  18,178  2011 2009  3535 Manchester Avenue
(Dollars in thousands)   
   Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description  Encumbrances Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition Land  Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built  Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:                
Carmichael, CA  24,548 2,440  41,988 1,935 2,440  43,923 — 2019 2014  4717 Engle Road
Carol Stream, IL  — 1,730  55,048 3,139 1,730  58,187 14,359  2012 2001  545 Belmont Lane
Carrollton, TX  — 4,280  31,444 1,477 4,280  32,921 5,127  2013 2010  2105 North Josey Lane
Cary , NC  — 740 45,240 918 740 46,158 9,522  2013 2009  1206 West Chatham Street
Cary , NC  — 6,112 70,008 9,070 6,155  79,035 9,215  2018 1999  300 Kildaire Woods Drive
Cedar Park, TX  — 1,750  15,664 742 1,750  16,406 1,351  2016 2015  800 C-Bar Ranch Trail
Cerritos, CA  — — 27,494 6,833 — 34,327 7,207  2016 2002  11000 New Falcon Way
Charlottesville, VA  — 4,651  91,468 13,629 4,651  105,097 15,730  2018 1991  2610 Barracks Road
Chatham, ON  642 1,098  12,462 3,290 1,255  15,595 3,709  2015 1965  25 Keil Drive North
Chelmsford, MA  — 1,040  10,951 2,018 1,120  12,889 4,935  2003 1997  4 Technology Dr .
Chertsey , UK  — 9,566  25,886 1,951 9,952  27,451 1,660  2015 2018  Bittams Lane
Chesterfield, MO  — 1,857  48,366 1,512 1,917  49,818 10,924  2013 2001  1880 Clarkson Road
Chorleywood, UK  — 5,636  43,191 6,354 6,076  49,105 12,352  2013 2007  High View, Rickmansworth Road
Chula Vista, CA  — 2,072  22,163 1,484 2,162  23,557 5,574  2013 2003  3302 Bonita Road
Church Crookham, UK  — 2,591  14,215 1,882 2,806  15,882 3,197  2014 2014  Bourley Road
Cincinnati, OH  — 1,750  11,279 79 1,750  11,358 355 2019 2019  732 Clough Pike Road
Cincinnati, OH  — 2,060  109,388 13,965 2,106  123,307 30,961  2007 2010  5445 Kenwood Road
Citrus Heights, CA  — 2,300  31,876 1,658 2,300  33,534 9,837  2010 1997  7418 Stock Ranch Rd.
Claremont, CA  — 2,430  9,928 1,765 2,515  11,608 3,183  2013 2001  2053 North Towne Avenue
Clay, NY  — 1,296  10,695 734 1,296  11,429 702 2019 2014  8547 Mor gan Road
Cohasset, MA  — 2,485  26,147 2,040 2,500  28,172 6,861  2013 1998  125 King Street (Rt 3A)
Colleyville, TX  — 1,050  17,082 53 1,050  17,135 1,385  2016 2013  8100 Precinct Line Road
Colorado Springs, CO  — 800 14,756 2,026 1,026  16,556 4,211 2013 2001  2105 University Park Boulevard
Colts Neck, NJ  — 780 14,733 2,599 1,131  16,981 4,194  2010 2002  3 Meridian Circle
Coquitlam, BC  9,102 3,047  24,567 2,439 3,264  26,789 7,628  2013 1990  1142 Duf ferin Street
Crystal Lake, IL  — 875 12,461 1,556 971 13,921 3,869  2013 2001  751 E Terra Cotta Avenue
Dallas, TX  — 6,330  114,794 2,288 6,330  117,082 16,762  2015 2013  3535 N Hall Street
Davenport, IA  — 1,403  35,893 4,830 1,614  40,512 11,931  2006 2009  4500 Elmore Ave.
Decatur , GA  — — — 31,177 1,946  29,231 7,458  2013 1998  920 Clairemont Avenue
Denver , CO  — 1,450  19,389 3,671 1,450  23,060 4,957  2012 1997  4901 South Monaco Street
Denver , CO  — 2,910  35,838 2,010 2,910  37,848 9,701  2012 2007  8101 E Mississippi Avenue
Denver , CO  — 5,411 104,641 8,008 5,411 112,649 3,672  2019 2014  1500 Little Raven St
Dix Hills, NY  — 3,808  39,014 2,045 3,959  40,908 9,751  2013 2003  337 Deer Park Road
Dollard-Des-Ormeaux,
QC  — 1,957  14,431 1,585 2,145  15,828 5,414  2013 2008  4377 St. Jean Blvd
Dresher , PA  8,380 1,900  10,664 1,211 1,914  11,861 4,008  2013 2006  1650 Susquehanna Road
Dublin, OH  — 1,680  43,423 7,075 1,850  50,328 16,148  2010 1990  6470 Post Rd
Dublin, OH  — 1,169  25,345 112 1,169  25,457 3,252  2016 2015  4175 Stoneridge Lane
East Amherst, NY  — 1,626  10,721 863 1,626  11,584 704 2019 2015  8040 Roll Road
East Meadow , NY  — 69 45,991 1,837 124 47,773 11,123  2013 2002  1555 Glen Curtiss Boulevard
East Setauket, NY  — 4,920  37,354 1,982 4,986  39,270 9,211 2013 2002  1 Sunrise Drive
Eastbourne, UK  — 4,145  33,744 3,384 4,472  36,801 8,971  2013 2008  6 Upper Kings Drive
Edgbaston, UK  — 2,720  13,969 1,524 2,926  15,287 2,003  2014 2015  Pershore Road
Edgewater , NJ  — 4,561  25,047 1,767 4,564  26,81 1 6,634  2013 2000  351 River Road
(Dollars in thousands)   
  Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description Encumbrances Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:                 
Edison, NJ — 1,892  32,314 3,498  1,911 35,793  10,447 2013  1996  1801 Oak Tree Road
Edmonds, WA — 1,650  24,449 8,055  1,686  32,468  4,664 2015  1976  21500 72nd Avenue West
Edmonton, AB 8,211 1,589  29,819 3,016  1,753  32,671  8,106 2013  1999  103 Rabbit Hill Court NW
Edmonton, AB 10,735 2,063  37,293 3,913  2,209  41,060  12,124 2013  1968  10015 103rd Avenue NW
El Dorado Hills, CA — 5,190  52,171 156 5,190  52,327  — 2017  2019  2020 Town Center West Way
Encino, CA — 5,040  46,255 5,021  5,040  51,276  12,449 2012  2003  15451 Ventura Boulevard
Englishtown, NJ — 690 12,520 2,267  860 14,617  3,781 2010  1997  49 Lasatta Ave
Erie, P A — 1,422  8,198 792 1,422  8,990  586 2019  2013  4400 East Lake Road
Esher , UK — 5,783  48,361 7,998  6,242  55,900  11,709 2013  2006  42 Copsem Lane
Fairfield, NJ — 3,120  43,868 2,277  3,180  46,085  10,815 2013  1998  47 Greenbrook Road
Fairfield, CA — 1,460  14,040 2,711 1,460  16,751  7,033 2002  1998  3350 Cherry Hills St.
Fairfield, OH — 1,416  12,566 294 1,416  12,860  517 2019  2018  520 Patterson Boulevard
Fareham, UK — 3,408  17,970 2,088  3,681  19,785  3,622 2014  2012  Redlands Lane
Florence, AL — 353 13,049 729 385 13,746  3,938 2010  1999  3275 County Road 47
Flossmoor , IL — 1,292  9,496 2,090  1,339  11,539  3,515 2013  2000  19715 Governors Highway
Folsom, CA — 1,490  32,754 93 1,490  32,847  5,416 2015  2014  1574 Creekside Drive
Fort Worth, TX — 7,118 52,772 1,744  7,118 54,516  1,910 2019  2017  3401 Amador Drive
Fort Worth, TX — 2,080  27,888 4,371  2,080  32,259  8,525 2012  2001  2151 Green Oaks Road
Fort Worth, TX — 1,740  19,799 732 1,740  20,531  2,435 2016  2014  7001 Bryant Irvin Road
Fremont, CA — 3,400  25,300 5,295  3,456  30,539  11,041 2005  1987  2860 Country Dr .
Fresno, CA 23,720 2,459  33,048 1,755  2,459  34,803  — 2019  2014  5605 North Gates Avenue
Frome, UK — 2,720  14,813 1,884  2,926  16,491  2,706 2014  2012  Welshmill Lane
Fullerton, CA — 1,964  19,989 1,168  1,998  21,123  5,300 2013  2008  2226 North Euclid Street
Gahanna, OH — 772 11,214 1,884  787 13,083  3,180 2013  1998  775 East Johnstown Road
Gardnerville, NV — 1,143  10,831 1,364  1,164  12,174  9,112 1998  1999  1565-A  Virginia Ranch Rd.
Gig Harbor , WA — 1,560  15,947 1,155  1,583  17,079  4,706 2010  1994  3213 45th St. Court NW
Gilbert, AZ 14,200 2,160  28,246 2,025  2,180  30,251  9,137 2013  2008  580 S. Gilbert Road
Glen Cove, NY — 4,594  35,236 2,276  4,643  37,463  10,265 2013  1998  39 Forest Avenue
Glenview , IL — 2,090  69,288 4,276  2,090  73,564  17,854 2012  2001  2200 Golf Road
Golden Valley , MN 3,600 1,520  33,513 1,578  1,634  34,977  8,005 2013  2005  4950 Olson Memorial Highway
Granbury , TX — 2,040  30,670 710 2,040  31,380  7,189 2011 2009  100 Watermark Boulevard
Grimsby , ON — 636 5,617 732 683 6,302  1,224 2015  1991  84 Main Street East
Grosse Pointe Woods,
MI — 950 13,662 891 950 14,553  3,255 2013  2006  1850 Vernier Road
Grosse Pointe Woods,
MI — 1,430  31,777 1,282  1,435  33,054  7,444 2013  2005  21260 Mack Avenue
Grove City , OH 36,420 3,575  85,764 865 3,491  86,713  3,901 2018  2017  3717 Orders Road
Guildford, UK — 5,361  56,494 5,122  5,766  61,21 1 13,881 2013  2006  Astolat Way, Peasmarsh
Gurnee, IL — 890 27,931 2,478  935 30,364  6,640 2013  2002  500 North Hunt Club Road
Haddonfield, NJ — 520 16,363 590 527 16,946  2,315 2011 2015  132 Warwick Road
Hambur g, NY — 967 10,006 821 967 10,827  622 2019  2009  4600 Southwestern Blvd
Hamilton, OH — 1,163  11,960 — 1,163  11,960  364 2019  2019  1740 Eden Park Drive
Hampshire, UK — 4,172  26,035 2,581  4,496  28,292  6,835 2013  2006  22-26 Church Road
Happy Valley , OR — 709 9,889 446 709 10,335  706 2019  1998  8915 S.E. Monterey
Haverford, P A — 1,880  33,993 2,648  1,904  36,617  8,274 2010  2000  731 Old Buck Lane
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:            
Henderson, NV — 1,190 11,600 1,111 1,253 12,648 4,139  2013 2008 1555 West Horizon Ridge Parkway
High Wycombe, UK — 3,567 13,422 1,140 3,711 14,418 1,087  2015 2017 The Row Lane End
Highland Park, IL — 2,820 15,832 796 2,820 16,628 3,013  2011 2012 1651 Richfield Avenue
Highland Park, IL — 2,250 25,313 1,556 2,271 26,848 7,216  2013 2005 1601 Green Bay Road
Hingham, MA — 1,440 32,292 318 1,444 32,606 5,373  2015 2012 1 Sgt. William B Terry Drive
Holbrook, NY — 3,957 35,337 2,351 4,145 37,500 8,607  2013 2001 320 Patchogue Holbrook Road
Horley , UK — 2,332 12,144 1,851 2,516 13,81 1 2,788  2014 2014 Court Lodge Road
Houston, TX — 3,830 55,674 7,693 3,830 63,367 16,958  2012 1998 2929 West Holcombe Boulevard
Houston, TX — 1,040 31,965 5,466 1,040 37,431 8,478  2012 1999 505 Bering Drive
Houston, TX — 1,750 15,603 1,595 1,750 17,198 1,485  2016 2014 10120 Louetta Road
Houston, TX — 960 15,275 — 960 15,275 7,461  2011 1995 10225 Cypresswood Dr
Howell, NJ 8,096 1,066 21,577 1,348 1,149 22,842 5,460  2010 2007 100 Meridian Place
Huntington Beach, CA — 3,808 31,172 2,646 3,931 33,695 9,396  2013 2004 7401 Yorktown Avenue
Independence, MO — 1,550 14,463 — 1,550 14,463 396 2019 2019 19301 East Eastland Ctr Ct
Irving, TX — 1,030 6,823 882 1,030 7,705 2,246  2007 1999 8855 West Valley Ranch Parkway
Jacksonville, FL — 6,550 29,316 — 6,550 29,316 100 2019 2019 10520 Validus Drive
Johns Creek, GA — 1,580 23,285 1,070 1,588 24,347 5,794  2013 2009 11405 Medlock Bridge Road
Johnson City , NY — 1,392 11,828 876 1,392 12,704 727 2019 2013 1035 Anna Maria Drive
Kanata, ON — 1,689 28,670 1,972 1,750 30,581 7,368  2012 2005 70 Stonehaven Drive
Kansas City , MO — 1,820 34,898 5,277 1,889 40,106 13,314  2010 1980 12100 Wornall Road
Kansas City , MO 4,880 1,930 39,997 5,488 1,987 45,428 14,964  2010 1986 6500 North Cosby Ave
Kansas City , MO — 541 23,962 320 548 24,275 3,884  2015 2014 6460 North Cosby Avenue
Kelowna, BC 5,176 2,688 13,647 2,123 2,895 15,563 4,386  2013 1999 863 Leon Avenue
Kennebunk, ME — 2,700 30,204 5,587 3,223 35,268 13,375  2013 2006 One Huntington Common Drive
Kenner , LA — 1,100 10,036 1,392 1,100 11,428 10,059  1998 2000 1600 Joe Yenni Blvd
Kennett Square, P A — 1,050 22,946 833 1,103 23,726 5,474  2010 2008 301 Victoria Gardens Dr .
Kingston, ON 4,229 1,030 11,416 1,597 1,115 12,928 2,200  2015 1983 181 Ontario Street
Kingwood, TX — 480 9,777 854 480 10,631 2,704  2011 1999 22955 Eastex Freeway
Kingwood, TX — 1,683 24,207 2,471 1,683 26,678 3,931  2017 2012 24025 Kingwood Place
Kirkland, WA — 1,880 4,315 1,231 1,880 5,546 2,073  2003 1996 6505 Lakeview Dr .
Kitchener , ON 1,329 708 2,744 296 684 3,064 901 2013 1979 164 - 168 Ferfus Avenue
Kitchener , ON 3,323 1,093 7,327 889 1,182 8,127 2,513  2013 1964 290 Queen Street South
Kitchener , ON 12,374 1,341 13,939 4,284 1,400 18,164 3,702  2016 2003 1250 Weber Street E
La Palma, CA — 2,950 16,591 1,269 2,973 17,837 4,369  2013 2003 5321 La Palma Avenue
Lackawanna, NY — 1,011 5,254 478 1,011 5,732 453 2019 2002 133 Orchard Place
Lafayette Hill, P A — 1,750 11,848 2,372 1,867 14,103 4,471  2013 1998 429 Ridge Pike
Laguna Hills, CA — 12,820 75,926 19,001 12,820 94,927 18,601  2016 1988 24903 Moulton Parkway
Laguna Woods, CA — 11,280 76,485 12,995 11,280 89,480 15,798  2016 1987 24441 Calle Sonora
Laguna Woods, CA — 9,150 57,842 11,547 9,150 69,389 12,299  2016 1986 24962 Calle Aragon
Lake Zurich, IL — 1,470 9,830 2,707 1,470 12,537 4,401  2011 2007 550 America Court
Lancaster , CA — 700 15,295 1,364 712 16,647 5,201  2010 1999 43051 15th St. West
Lancaster , NY — 1,252 11,084 976 1,252 12,060 689 2019 2011 18 Pavement Road
Laval, QC 22,375 2,105 32,161 5,368 2,214 37,420 4,851  2018 2005 269, boulevard Ste. Rose
(Dollars in thousands)   
   Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description  Encumbrances LandBuilding &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:                
Laval, QC  4,306 2,383 5,968  1,419 2,507 7,263  894 2018  1989  263, boulevard Ste. Rose
Lawrenceville, GA  — 1,500 29,003  794 1,529 29,768  7,241 2013  2008  1375 Webb Gin House Road
Leatherhead, UK  — 4,682 17,835  1,727 4,871 19,373  1,338 2015  2017  Rectory Lane
Leawood, KS  — 2,490 32,493  3,749 5,610 33,122  8,386 2012  1999  4400 West 115th Street
Lecanto, FL  — 200 6,900  421 208 7,313  2,884 2004  1986  2341 W. Norvell Bryant Hwy .
Lenexa, KS  9,700 826 26,251  1,332 922 27,487  7,167 2013  2006  15055 West 87th Street Parkway
Lincroft, NJ  — 9 19,958  1,906 131 21,742  5,324 2013  2002  734 Newman Springs Road
Linwood, NJ  — 800 21,984  1,489 861 23,412  5,695 2010  1997  432 Central Ave
Litchfield, CT  — 1,240 17,908  11,640 1,272 29,516  5,671 2010  1998  19 Constitution Way
Little Neck, NY  — 3,350 38,461  3,016 3,358 41,469  9,556 2010  2000  5515 Little Neck Pkwy .
Livingston, NJ  — 8,000 44,424  919 8,017 45,326  3,595 2015  2017  369 E Mt Pleasant Avenue
Lombard, IL  17,010 2,130 59,943  1,755 2,218 61,610  14,083 2013  2009  2210 Fountain Square Dr
London, UK  — 3,121 10,027  1,988 3,370 11,766  1,952 2014  2012  71 Hatch Lane
London, UK  — 7,691 16,797  1,369 8,001 17,781  1,592 2015  2016  6 Victoria Drive
London, ON  — 987 8,228  1,204 1,084 9,335  1,829 2015  1989  760 Horizon Drive
London, ON  11,200 1,969 16,985  2,534 2,102 19,386  3,680 2015  1953  1486 Richmond Street North
London, ON  32 1,445 13,631  2,213 1,667 15,622  2,672 2015  1950  81 Grand Avenue
Longueuil, QC  9,155 3,992 23,71 1 4,584 4,340 27,947  5,201 2015  1989  70 Rue Levis
Lorain, OH  — 1,394 12,956  23 1,394 12,979  340 2019  2018  5401 North Pointe Pkwy
Los Angeles, CA  58,514 — 114,438  6,152 — 120,590  31,800 2011 2009  10475 Wilshire Boulevard
Los Angeles, CA  — 3,540 19,007  3,369 3,540 22,376  5,696 2012  2001  2051 N. Highland Avenue
Los Angeles, CA  — — 28,050  5,879 71 33,858  4,310 2016  2006  4061 Grand View Boulevard
Louisville, KY  — 2,420 20,816  2,470 2,420 23,286  6,078 2012  1999  4600 Bowling Boulevard
Louisville, KY  13,650 1,600 20,326  1,044 1,600 21,370  5,524 2013  2010  6700 Overlook Drive
Louisville, CO  — 2,023 31,562  1,769 2,023 33,331  1,416 2019  2008  1336 E Hecla Drive
Louisville, CO  — 1,158 26,656  — 1,158 26,656  447 2019  2019  1800 Plaza Drive
Louisville, CO  — 2,672 50,972  6,311 2,672 57,283  2,492 2019  1999  1331 E Hecla Drive
Louisville, CO  — 1,480 15,546  682 1,480 16,228  881 2019  1999  282 McCaslin Blvd
Louisville, CO  — 2,567 42,712  2,681 2,567 45,393  1,811 2019  2004  1331 E Hecla Drive
Lynnfield, MA  — 3,165 45,200  2,707 3,736 47,336  11,558 2013  2006  55 Salem Street
Mahwah, NJ  — 1,605 27,249  913 1,606 28,161  3,280 2012  2015  15 Edison Road
Malvern, P A  — 1,651 17,194  2,421 1,800 19,466  6,072 2013  1998  324 Lancaster Avenue
Manteca, CA  — 1,300 12,125  2,947 1,312 15,060  5,908 2005  1986  430 N. Union Rd.
Maple Ridge, BC  8,331 2,875 11,922  5,974 3,097 17,674  1,858 2015  2009  12241 224th Street
Marieville, QC  6,335 1,278 12,113 1,088 1,385 13,094  2,154 2015  2002  425 rue Claude de Ramezay
Markham, ON  50,918 3,727 48,939  4,472 4,032 53,106  15,995 2013  1981  7700 Bayview Avenue
Marlboro, NJ  — 2,222 14,888  1,542 2,250 16,402  4,281 2013  2002  3A South Main Street
Marysville, WA  — 620 4,780  1,652 620 6,432  2,434 2003  1998  9802 48th Dr . N.E.
Medicine Hat, AB  10,438 1,432 14,141  998 1,541 15,030  3,491 2015  1999  223 Park Meadows Drive SE
Medina, OH  — 1,683 12,036  457 1,683 12,493  545 2019  2017  699 North Huntington St
Melbourne, FL  — 7,070 48,257  31,764 7,070 80,021  25,01 1 2007  2009  7300 Watersong Lane
Melville, NY  — 4,280 73,283  7,212 4,326 80,449  18,189 2010  2001  70 Pinelawn Rd
(Dollars in thousands)   
   Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description Encumbrances  Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:                
Memphis, TN — 1,800  17,744 2,736 1,800 20,480  6,270 2012  1999  6605 Quail Hollow Road
Menomonee Falls, WI — 1,020  6,984 2,256 1,020 9,240  2,550 2006  2007  W128 N6900 Northfield Drive
Mesa, AZ — 950 9,087 2,881 950 11,968  5,472 1999  2000  7231 E. Broadway
Metairie, LA 14,200  725 27,708 948 725 28,656  6,367 2013  2009  3732 West Esplanade Ave. S
Mill Creek, WA — 10,150  60,274 3,448 10,179 63,693  20,215 2010  1998  14905 Bothell-Everett Hwy
Milton, ON 19,890  4,542  25,321 3,668 4,882 28,649  4,305 2015  2012  611 Farmstead Drive
Minnetonka, MN — 920 29,344 1,257 964 30,557  6,768 2013  2006  18605 Old Excelsior Blvd.
Mission Viejo, CA 13,570  6,600  52,118 8,447 6,600 60,565  9,097 2016  1998  27783 Center Drive
Mississauga, ON 8,491  1,602  17,996 1,803 1,711 19,690  4,855 2013  1984  1130 Bough Beeches Boulevard
Mississauga, ON 2,861  873 4,655 569 934 5,163  1,359 2013  1978  3051 Constitution Boulevard
Mississauga, ON 27,219  3,649  35,137 3,795 3,946 38,635  9,565 2015  1988  1490 Rathburn Road East
Mississauga, ON 6,066  2,548  15,158 2,904 2,724 17,886  3,821 2015  1989  85 King Street East
Missoula, MT — 550 7,490 563 553 8,050  2,968 2005  1998  3620 American Way
Mobberley , UK — 5,146  26,665 3,279 5,563 29,527  8,637 2013  2007  Barclay Park, Hall Lane
Monterey , CA — 6,440  29,101 2,549 6,443 31,647  7,438 2013  2009  1110 Cass St.
Montgomery , MD — 6,482  83,642 12,31 1 6,482 95,953  9,510 2018  1992  3701 International Dr
Montgomery Village,
MD — 3,530  18,246 7,214 4,291 24,699  10,01 1 2013  1993  19310 Club House Road
Montreal-Nord, QC 11,903  4,407  23,719 7,965 4,637 31,454  3,715 2018  1988  6700, boulevard Gouin Est
Moorestown, NJ — 2,060  51,628 5,205 2,095 56,798  12,519 2010  2000  1205 N. Church St
Moose Jaw , SK 1,973  582 12,973 1,885 621 14,819  3,548 2013  2001  425 4th Avenue NW
Morton Grove, IL — 1,900  19,374 864 1,900 20,238  4,284 2010  2011 5520 N. Lincoln Ave.
Murphy , TX — 1,950  19,182 811 1,950 19,993  2,350 2015  2012  304 West FM 544
Naperville, IL — 1,550  12,237 2,195 1,550 14,432  3,841 2012  2013  1936 Brookdale Road
Naperville, IL — 1,540  28,204 1,435 1,593 29,586  7,300 2013  2002  535 West Ogden Avenue
Naples, FL 55,188  8,989  119,398 7,188 9,088 126,487  25,666 2015  2000  4800 Aston Gardens Way
Nashville, TN — 3,900  35,788 3,911 3,900 39,699  11,568 2012  1999  4206 Stammer Place
Nepean, ON 5,491  1,575  5,770 1,110 1,697 6,758  1,716 2015  1988  1 Mill Hill Road
New Braunfels, TX — 1,200  19,800 10,408 2,729 28,679  5,682 2011 2009  2294 East Common Street
Newbury , UK — 2,850  12,796 1,498 3,065 14,079  1,239 2015  2016  370 London Road
Newmarket, UK — 4,071  11,902 2,441 4,398 14,016  2,596 2014  2011 Jeddah Way
Newtown Square, P A — 1,930  14,420 1,149 1,953 15,546  4,989 2013  2004  333 S. Newtown Street Rd.
North Tonawanda, NY — 1,172  7,297 600 1,172 7,897  517 2019  2005  705 Sandra Lane
North Tustin, CA — 2,880  18,059 933 3,044 18,828  4,067 2013  2000  12291 Newport Avenue
Oak Harbor , WA — 739 7,667 448 739 8,115 669 2019  1998  171 SW  6th Ave
Oak Park, IL — 1,250  40,383 2,640 1,250 43,023  10,749 2012  2004  1035 Madison Street
Oakdale, P A — 1,865  11,925 880 1,865 12,805  724 2019  2017  7420 Steubenville Pike
Oakland, CA — 3,877  47,508 3,465 4,114 50,736  12,439 2013  1999  11889 Skyline Boulevard
Oakton, VA — 2,250  37,576 2,851 2,393 40,284  9,511 2013  1997  2863 Hunter Mill Road
Oakville, ON 5,618  1,252  7,382 922 1,346 8,210  2,113 2013  1982  289 and 299 Randall Street
Oakville, ON 9,189  2,134  29,963 3,314 2,280 33,131  8,518 2013  1994  25 Lakeshore Road West
Oakville, ON 4,812  1,271  13,754 1,646 1,361 15,310  3,474 2013  1988  345 Church Street
Ogden, UT — 360 6,700 936 360 7,636  2,880 2004  1998  1340 N. Washington Blv .
Okotoks, AB 18,824  714 20,943 1,908 780 22,785  4,375 2015  2010  51 Riverside Gate
(Dollars in thousands)  
    Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description  Encumbrances  LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:                
Orange, CA  36,000  8,021 65,234 3,238  8,021  68,472 — 2019 2018 630 The City Drive South
Oshawa, ON  6,698  841 7,570 985 957 8,439 2,167  2013 1991 649 King Street East
Ottawa, ON  9,668  1,341 15,425 2,720  1,469  18,017 2,719  2015 2001 110 Berrigan Drive
Ottawa, ON  18,152  3,454 23,309 3,181  3,760  26,184 7,627  2015 1966 2370 Carling Avenue
Ottawa, ON  20,738  4,256 39,141 2,962  4,477  41,882 7,129  2015 2005 751 Peter Morand Crescent
Ottawa, ON  7,212  2,103 18,421 4,969  2,294  23,199 3,852  2015 1989 1 Eaton Street
Ottawa, ON  13,71 1 2,963 26,424 3,754  3,196  29,945 4,611 2015 2008 691 Valin Street
Ottawa, ON  10,377  1,561 18,170 2,828  1,751  20,808 3,069  2015 2006 22 Barnstone Drive
Ottawa, ON  13,702  3,663 30,633 — 3,663  30,633 5,208  2015 2009 990 Hunt Club Road
Ottawa, ON  17,456  3,411 28,335 6,228  3,684  34,290 6,357  2015 2009 2 Valley Stream Drive
Ottawa, ON  2,809  724 4,710 623 774 5,283 1,375  2013 1995 1345 Ogilvie Road
Ottawa, ON  2,044  818 2,165 1,484  727 3,740 1,040  2013 1993 370 Kennedy Lane
Ottawa, ON  9,559  2,809 27,299 3,021  3,020  30,109 8,289  2013 1998 43 Aylmer Avenue
Ottawa, ON  4,517  1,156 9,758 1,129  1,290  10,753 2,564  2013 1998 1351 Hunt Club Road
Ottawa, ON  5,876  746 7,800 1,142  803 8,885 2,129  2013 1999 140 Darlington Private
Ottawa, ON  8,898  1,176 12,764 1,663  1,298  14,305 2,340  2015 1987 10 Vaughan Street
Outremont, QC  17,866  6,746 45,981 11,155  7,098  56,784 6,385  2018 1976 1000, avenue Rockland
Overland Park, KS  — 1,540 16,269 1,663  1,670  17,802 3,918  2012 1998 9201 Foster
Palo Alto, CA  25,050  — 39,639 3,072  24 42,687 10,156  2013 2007 2701 El Camino Real
Paramus, NJ  — 2,840 35,728 1,855  2,986  37,437 8,755  2013 1998 567 Paramus Road
Parkland, FL  54,784  4,880 111,481 5,181  4,904  116,638 23,531  2015 2000 5999 University Drive
Parma, OH  — 1,533 9,185 701 1,533  9,886 631 2019 2016 11500 Huf fman Road
Paso Robles, CA  — 1,770 8,630 1,379  1,770  10,009 4,288  2002 1998 1919 Creston Rd.
Peabody , MA  5,892  2,250 16,071 1,250  2,380  17,191 3,328  2013 1994 73 Mar gin Street
Pella, IA  — 870 6,716 63 870 6,779 1,218  2012 2002 2602 Fifield Road
Pembroke, ON  — 1,931 9,427 1,082  2,000  10,440 2,485  2012 1999 1111 Pembroke Street West
Pennington, NJ  — 1,380 27,620 1,418  1,507  28,91 1 6,386  2011 2000 143 West Franklin Avenue
Peoria, AZ  — 766 21,796 1,468  766 23,264 2,628  2018 2014 13391 N 94th Drive
Pittsbur gh, P A  — 1,580 18,017 1,143  1,587  19,153 5,010  2013 2009 900 Lincoln Club Dr .
Placentia, CA  — 8,480 17,076 5,896  8,513  22,939 4,445  2016 1987 1180 N Bradford Avenue
Plainview , NY  — 3,066 19,901 1,211 3,182  20,996 4,693  2013 2001 1231 Old Country Road
Plano, TX  28,960  3,120 59,950 3,806  3,227  63,649 18,286  2013 2006 4800 West Parker Road
Plano, TX  — 1,750 15,390 1,505  1,750  16,895 1,660  2016 2014 3690 Mapleshade Lane
Playa Vista, CA  — 1,580 40,531 3,084  1,605  43,590 10,040  2013 2006 5555 Playa Vista Drive
Pleasanton, CA  — — — 52,166  3,676  48,490 1,289  2016 2017 5700 Pleasant Hill Road
Port Perry , ON  12,123  3,685 26,788 4,160  3,932  30,701 4,569  2015 2009 15987 Simcoe Street
Port St. Lucie, FL  — 8,700 47,230 20,937  8,700  68,167 19,243  2008 2010 10685 SW  Stony Creek Way
Portage, MI  42,000  2,857 59,848 2,569  2,857  62,417 3,653  2019 2017 3951 W. Milham Ave.
Princeton, NJ  — 1,730 30,888 2,236  1,814  33,040 7,486  2011 2001 155 Raymond Road
Purley , UK  — 7,365 35,161 4,079  7,982  38,623 10,333  2012 2005 21 Russell Hill Road
Puyallup, WA  — 1,150 20,776 1,494  1,156  22,264 6,346  2010 1985 123 Fourth Ave. NW
Quebec City , QC  8,325  2,420 21,977 3,662  2,546  25,513 2,956  2018 2000 795, rue Alain
Quebec City , QC  12,294  3,300 28,325 5,172  3,472  33,325 3,740  2018 1987 650 and 700, avenue Murray
(Dollars in thousands)   
    Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description  Encumbrances  Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
AcquiredYear
Built  Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:                  
Queensbury , NY  — 1,260  21,744 577 1,273  22,308  3,213 2015 1999  27 Woodvale Road
Rancho Cucamonga,
CA  — 1,480  10,055 2,144  2,084  11,595  3,388 2013 2001  9519 Baseline Road
Rancho Palos Verdes,
CA  — 5,450  60,034 3,646  5,450  63,680  16,003 2012 2004  5701 Crestridge Road
Randolph, NJ  29,300  1,540  46,934 2,370  1,718  49,126  11,141 2013 2006  648 Route 10 West
Red Deer , AB  12,551  1,247  19,283 2,099  1,339  21,290  3,727 2015 2004  3100 - 22 Street
Red Deer , AB  14,770  1,199  22,339 2,201  1,282  24,457  4,460 2015 2004  10 Inglewood Drive
Redding, CA  26,887  4,474  36,857 2,161  4,474  39,018  — 2019 2017  2150 Bechelli Lane
Regina, SK  6,218  1,485  21,148 2,096  1,678  23,051  6,144 2013 1999  3651 Albert Street
Regina, SK  6,204  1,244  21,036 1,989  1,333  22,936  5,411 2013 2004  3105 Hillsdale Street
Regina, SK  15,477  1,539  24,053 4,685  1,663  28,614  4,673 2015 1992  1801 McIntyre Street
Rehoboth Beach, DE  — 960 24,248 9,200  993 33,415  6,994 2010 1999  36101 Seaside Blvd
Reno, NV  — 1,060  11,440 930 1,060  12,370  4,762 2004 1998  5165 Summit Ridge Court
Ridgeland, MS  — 520 7,675 901 520 8,576  3,384 2003 1997  410 Orchard Park
Riviere-du-Loup, QC  2,854  592 7,601 1,820  665 9,348  1,574 2015 1956  35 des Cedres
Riviere-du-Loup, QC  12,164  1,454  16,848 5,339  1,812  21,829  4,316 2015 1993  230-235 rue Des Chenes
Rocky Hill, CT  — 1,090  6,710 1,752  1,090  8,462  3,291 2003 1996  60 Cold Spring Rd.
Rohnert Park, CA  — 6,500  18,700 3,756  6,546  22,410  8,277 2005 1986  4855 Snyder Lane
Romeoville, IL  — 854 12,646 61,722  6,197  69,025  18,583 2006 2010  605 S Edward Dr .
Roseville, MN  — 1,540  35,877 1,252  1,628  37,041  8,190 2013 2002  2555 Snelling Avenue, North
Roseville, CA  — 3,300  41,652 6,832  3,300  48,484  7,624 2016 2000  5161 Foothills Boulevard
Roswell, GA  — 1,107  9,627 1,876  1,114 11,496  8,369 1997 1999  655 Mansell Rd.
Roswell, GA  — 2,080  6,486 1,686  2,380  7,872  1,913 2012 1997  75 Magnolia Street
Sabre Springs, CA  — — — 47,090  3,726  43,364  1,047 2016 2017  12515 Springhurst Drive
Sacramento, CA  — 940 14,781 612 952 15,381  4,492 2010 1978  6350 Riverside Blvd
Sacramento, CA  — 1,300  23,394 1,556  1,369  24,881  5,802 2013 2004  345 Munroe Street
Saint-Lambert, QC  34,002  10,259  61,903 3,868  11,054  64,976  15,584 2015 1989  1705 Avenue Victoria
Salinas, CA  — 5,110 41,424 9,387  5,150  50,771  8,906 2016 1990  1320 Padre Drive
Salisbury , UK  — 2,720  15,269 1,676  2,926  16,739  2,579 2014 2013  Shapland Close
Salt Lake City , UT  — 1,360  19,691 779 1,360  20,470  6,592 2011 1986  1430 E. 4500 S.
San Antonio, TX  — 6,120  28,169 2,630  6,120  30,799  6,947 2010 2011 2702 Cembalo Blvd
San Antonio, TX  — 5,045  58,048 3,253  5,045  61,301  5,962 2017 2015  11300 Wild Pine
San Antonio, TX  — 11,683  69,623 3,634  11,683  73,257  2,722 2019 2016  6870 Heuermann Road
San Diego, CA  — 5,810  63,078 3,968  5,810  67,046  18,976 2012 2001  13075 Evening Creek Drive S
San Diego, CA  — 3,000  27,164 1,521  3,016  28,669  6,231 2013 2003  810 Turquoise Street
San Diego, CA  29,843  4,179  40,639 1,920  4,179  42,559  — 2019 2017  955 Grand Ave
San Francisco, CA  — 5,920  91,639 13,564  5,920  105,203  17,446 2016 1998  1550 Sutter Street
San Francisco, CA  — 11,800  77,214 10,401  11,800  87,615  14,542 2016 1923  1601 19th Avenue
San Gabriel, CA  — 3,120  15,566 1,135  3,165  16,656  4,208 2013 2005  8332 Huntington Drive
San Jose, CA  — 3,280  46,823 3,925  3,280  50,748  12,727 2012 2002  500 S Winchester Boulevard
San Jose, CA  — 11,900  27,647 5,198  11,966  32,779  5,773 2016 2002  4855 San Felipe Road
San Rafael, CA  — 1,620  27,392 3,964  1,854  31,122  4,342 2016 2001  111 Merrydale Road
San Ramon, CA  — 8,700  72,223 9,954  8,716  82,161  13,500 2016 1992  9199 Fircrest Lane
Sandy Springs, GA  — 2,214  8,360 1,454  2,220  9,808  3,133 2012 1997  5455 Glenridge Drive NE
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:            
Santa Monica, CA 15,820 5,250 28,340 1,091 5,266 29,415 6,912  2013 2004 1312 15th Street
Santa Rosa, CA — 2,250 26,273 3,525 2,292 29,756 4,508  2016 2001 4225 Wayvern Drive
Saskatoon, SK 3,836 981 13,905 1,407 1,047 15,246 3,431  2013 1999 220 24th Street East
Saskatoon, SK 13,372 1,382 17,609 1,763 1,476 19,278 4,307  2013 2004 1622 Acadia Drive
Schaumbur g, IL — 2,460 22,863 1,277 2,497 24,103 6,501  2013 2001 790 North Plum Grove Road
Scottsdale, AZ — 2,500 3,890 1,476 2,500 5,366 1,458  2008 1998 9410 East Thunderbird Road
Scranton, P A — 875 10,504 695 875 11,199 666 2019 2014 1651 Dickson Avenue
Seal Beach, CA — 6,204 72,954 2,876 6,271 75,763 21,133  2013 2004 3850 Lampson Avenue
Seattle, WA — 5,190 9,350 1,726 5,199 11,067 3,888  2010 1962 11501 15th Ave NE
Seattle, WA 27,180 10,670 37,291 1,618 10,700 38,879 13,281  2010 2005 805 4th Ave N
Seattle, WA — 1,150 19,887 2,737 1,153 22,621 3,336  2015 1995 11039 17th Avenue
Selbyville, DE — 750 25,912 867 769 26,760 6,298  2010 2008 21111 Arrington Dr
Sevenoaks, UK — 6,181 40,240 6,340 6,648 46,113 12,282  2012 2009 64 - 70 Westerham Road
Severna Park, MD — — 67,623 5,944 38 73,529 10,854  2016 1997 43 W McKinsey Road
Shelby Township, MI 13,180 1,040 26,344 1,438 1,110 27,712 6,384  2013 2006 46471 Hayes Road
Shrewsbury , NJ — 2,120 38,116 2,333 2,148 40,421 9,371  2010 2000 5 Meridian Way
Sidcup, UK — 7,446 56,570 6,330 8,030 62,316 17,441  2012 2000 Frognal Avenue
Silver Spring, MD — — — 64,540 3,436 61,104 1,466  2016 2018 2201 Colston Drive
Simi Valley , CA — 3,200 16,664 1,889 3,298 18,455 5,390  2013 2009 190 Tierra Rejada Road
Simi Valley , CA — 5,510 51,406 8,426 5,510 59,832 10,275  2016 2003 5300 E Los Angeles Avenue
Solihull, UK — 5,070 43,297 6,660 5,453 49,574 12,641  2012 2009 1270 Warwick Road
Solihull, UK — 3,571 26,053 2,969 3,894 28,699 7,375  2013 2007 1 Worcester Way
Solihull, UK — 1,851 10,585 1,421 1,990 11,867 1,153  2015 2016 Warwick Road
Sonning, UK — 5,644 42,155 4,828 6,100 46,527 11,020  2013 2009 Old Bath Rd.
Sonoma, CA — 1,100 18,400 3,764 1,109 22,155 7,932  2005 1988 800 Oregon St.
Sonoma, CA — 2,820 21,890 3,158 2,827 25,041 3,787  2016 2005 91 Napa Road
Southlake, TX — 6,207 56,675 7,624 6,207 64,299 3,184  2019 2008 101 Watermere Drive
Spokane, WA — 3,200 25,064 1,019 3,200 26,083 7,538  2013 2001 3117 E. Chaser Lane
Spokane, WA — 2,580 25,342 382 2,580 25,724 6,597  2013 1999 1110 E. Westview Ct.
St. Albert, AB 9,894 1,145 17,863 3,192 1,247 20,953 5,779  2014 2005 78C McKenney Avenue
St. John's, NL 5,449 706 11,765 829 748 12,552 2,009  2015 2005 64 Portugal Cove Road
Stittsville, ON 4,227 1,175 17,397 1,884 1,263 19,193 4,306  2013 1996 1340 - 1354 Main Street
Stockport, UK — 4,369 25,018 2,864 4,720 27,531 7,480  2013 2008 1 Dairyground Road
Stockton, CA — 2,280 5,983 1,214 2,372 7,105 2,223  2010 1988 6725 Inglewood
Strongsville, OH — 1,113 10,882 656 1,113 11,538 651 2019 2017 15100 Howe Road
Stuart, FL — 5,276 23,796 730 5,276 24,526 223 2019 2019 2625 SE Cove Road
Studio City , CA — 4,006 25,307 1,360 4,115 26,558 7,094  2013 2004 4610 Coldwater Canyon Avenue
Suffield, CT — 4,409 27,694 2,392 4,409 30,086 826 2019 1998 7 Canal Road
Sugar Land, TX — 960 31,423 999 960 32,422 8,673  2011 1996 1221 Seventh St
Sugar Land, TX — 4,272 60,493 6,540 4,272 67,033 8,760  2017 2015 744 Brooks Street
Sun City , FL 20,609 6,521 48,476 6,439 6,648 54,788 13,348  2015 1995 231 Courtyards
Sun City , FL 23,220 5,040 50,923 5,782 5,388 56,357 12,170  2015 1999 1311 Aston Gardens Court
Sun City West, AZ — 1,250 21,778 1,162 1,250 22,940 5,012  2012 1998 13810 West Sandridge Drive
(Dollars in thousands)  
    Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description  Encumbrances  LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:                
Sunnyvale, CA  — 5,420 41,682 2,715  5,420  44,397 11,522  2012 2002 1039 East El Camino Real
Surrey , BC  6,316  3,605 18,818 2,466  3,849  21,040 6,563  2013 2000 16028 83rd Avenue
Surrey , BC  15,386  4,552 22,338 2,939  4,905  24,924 8,226  2013 1987 15501 16th Avenue
Sutton, UK  — 4,096 14,532 2,444  4,408  16,664 1,396  2015 2016 123 Westmead Road
Suwanee, GA  — 1,560 11,538 1,531  1,560  13,069 3,743  2012 2000 4315 Johns Creek Parkway
Sway , UK  — 4,145 15,508 2,261  4,509  17,405 3,692  2014 2008 Sway Place
Swift Current, SK  1,790  492 10,119 1,185  531 11,265 2,713  2013 2001 301 Macoun Drive
Sylvania, OH  — 1,205 12,024 — 1,205  12,024 270 2019 2019 4120 King Road
Syracuse, NY  — 1,385 11,555 863 1,385  12,418 743 2019 2011 6715 Buckley Road
Tacoma, WA  — 4,170 73,377 17,171  4,170  90,548 17,187  2016 1987 8201 6th Avenue
Tampa, FL  69,330  4,910 114,148 7,556  5,073  121,541 23,400  2015 2001 12951 W Linebaugh Avenue
Tampa, FL  — 3,451 25,775 — 3,451  25,775 65 2019 2019 11330 Countryway Blvd
The Woodlands, TX  — 480 12,379 557 480 12,936 3,351  2011 1999 7950 Bay Branch Dr
Toledo, OH  — 2,040 47,129 4,107  2,144  51,132 16,567  2010 1985 3501 Executive Parkway
Toms River , NJ  — 1,610 34,627 1,428  1,695  35,970 8,532  2010 2005 1587 Old Freehold Rd
Tonawanda, NY  — 1,534 13,264 1,252  1,534  14,516 820 2019 2011 300 Fries Road
Tonawanda, NY  — 2,425 12,433 1,428  2,425  13,861 852 2019 2009 285 Crestmount Avenue
Toronto, ON  17,976  2,927 20,713 4,001  3,157  24,484 4,292  2015 1900 54 Foxbar Road
Toronto, ON  8,049  5,082 25,493 3,119 5,448  28,246 6,299  2015 1988 645 Castlefield Avenue
Toronto, ON  12,756  2,008 19,620 1,286  2,113 20,801 3,744  2015 1999 4251 Dundas Street West
Toronto, ON  36,974  5,132 41,657 5,581  5,484  46,886 12,124  2015 1964 10 William Mor gan Drive
Toronto, ON  7,665  2,480 7,571 1,099  2,662  8,488 2,084  2015 1971 123 Spadina Road
Toronto, ON  4,701  1,079 5,364 731 1,152  6,022 1,488  2013 1982 25 Centennial Park Road
Toronto, ON  7,545  2,513 19,695 2,250  2,718  21,740 4,677  2013 2002 305 Balliol Street
Toronto, ON  17,746  3,400 32,757 3,552  3,635  36,074 9,152  2013 1973 1055 and 1057 Don Mills Road
Toronto, ON  5,807  1,447 3,918 673 1,572  4,466 1,361  2013 1987 1340 York Mills Road
Toronto, ON  31,276  5,304 53,488 8,935  5,675  62,052 17,963  2013 1988 8 The Donway East
Torrance, CA  — 3,497 73,138 186 3,497  73,324 6,464  2016 2016 25535 Hawthorne Boulevard
Tucson, AZ  — 830 6,179 4,055  830 10,234 2,031  2012 1997 5660 N. Kolb Road
Tulsa, OK  — 1,330 21,285 4,679  1,362  25,932 8,192  2010 1986 8887 South Lewis Ave
Tulsa, OK  — 1,500 20,861 4,285  1,614  25,032 8,129  2010 1984 9524 East 71st St
Turlock, CA  — 2,266 12,737 1,122  2,266  13,859 263 2019 2001 3791 Crowell Road
Twinsbur g, OH  — 1,035 8,302 543 1,035  8,845 569 2019 2016 3092 Kendal Lane
Upland, CA  — 3,160 42,596 68 3,160  42,664 6,592  2015 2014 2419 North Euclid Avenue
Upper Providence, P A — 1,900 28,195 404 1,906  28,593 3,475  2013 2015 1133 Black Rock Road
Upper St Claire, P A — 1,102 13,455 1,623  1,153  15,027 4,186  2013 2005 500 Village Drive
Vacaville, CA  — 900 17,100 3,051  900 20,151 7,599  2005 1987 799 Yellowstone Dr .
Vallejo, CA  — 4,000 18,000 4,463  4,030  22,433 8,210  2005 1989 350 Locust Dr .
Vallejo, CA  — 2,330 15,407 1,224  2,330  16,631 4,928  2010 1990 2261 Tuolumne
Vancouver , WA  — 1,820 19,042 1,052  1,821  20,093 5,810  2010 2006 1001 1 NE 1 18th Ave
Vancouver , BC  — 7,282 6,572 1,440  7,661  7,633 5,714  2015 1974 2803 West 41st Avenue
Vankleek Hill, ON  665 389 2,960 541 421 3,469 960 2013 1987 48 Wall Street
(Dollars in thousands)  
   Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description  Encumbrances Land  Building &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition Land  Building &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors
Housing
Operating:                
Vaudreuil, QC  8,012 1,852  14,214  1,686 1,924  15,828  2,837 2015 1975 333 rue Querbes
Venice, FL  64,425 6,820  100,501  5,560 6,958  105,923  22,077 2015 2002 1000 Aston Gardens Drive
Vero Beach, FL  — 2,930  40,070  25,748 2,930  65,818  24,423 2007 2003 7955 16th Manor
Victoria, BC  6,877 2,856  18,038  1,833 3,049  19,678  5,414 2013 1974 3000 Shelbourne Street
Victoria, BC  6,340 3,681  15,774  1,700 3,931  17,224  4,936 2013 1988 3051 Shelbourne Street
Victoria, BC  7,109 2,476  15,379  2,265 2,647  17,473  2,713 2015 1990 3965 Shelbourne Street
Virginia Water,
UK  — 7,106  29,937  7,580 5,856  38,767  10,904 2012 2002 Christ Church Road
Voorhees, NJ  — 3,700  24,312  2,503 3,854  26,661  4,867 2012 2013 311 Route 73
Wall, NJ  — 1,650  25,350  2,985 1,694  28,291  6,175 2011 2003 2021 Highway 35
Walnut Creek,
CA  — 3,700  12,467  2,931 3,808  15,290  4,571 2013 1998 2175 Ygnacio Valley Road
Walnut Creek,
CA  — 10,320  100,890  18,143 10,320  119,033  20,636 2016 1988 1580 Geary Road
Washington, DC  — 4,000  69,154  3,222 4,004  72,372  16,427 2013 2004 5111 Connecticut Avenue NW
Watchung, NJ  — 1,920  24,880  1,979 2,055  26,724  5,918 2011 2000 680 Mountain Boulevard
Waukee, IA  — 1,870  31,878  790 1,870  32,668  5,905 2012 2007 1650 SE Holiday Crest Circle
Wayland, MA  — 1,207  27,462  2,349 1,340  29,678  7,435 2013 1997 285 Commonwealth Road
Webster Groves,
MO  — 1,790  15,425  2,637 1,801  18,051  5,039 2011 2012 45 E Lockwood Avenue
Welland, ON  6,027 983 7,530  793 1,019  8,287  1,338 2015 2006 110 First Street
Wellesley , MA  — 4,690  77,462  347 4,690  77,809  13,734 2015 2012 23 & 27 Washington Street
West Babylon,
NY  — 3,960  47,085  2,440 3,960  49,525  11,042 2013 2003 580 Montauk Highway
West
Bloomfield, MI  — 1,040  12,300  905 1,100  13,145  3,320 2013 2000 7005 Pontiac Trail
West Hills, CA  — 2,600  7,521  1,714 2,658  9,177  2,957 2013 2002 9012 Topanga Canyon Road
West Seneca,
NY  — 1,232  6,600  634 1,232  7,234  546 2019 2000 1187 Orchard Park Drive
West Seneca,
NY  — 1,035  7,438  604 1,035  8,042  546 2019 2007 2341 Union Road
West
Vancouver , BC 17,934 7,059  28,155  4,380 7,545  32,049  8,354 2013 1987 2095 Marine Drive
Westbourne,
UK  — 5,441  41,420  8,236 5,854  49,243  11,299 2013 2006 16-18 Poole Road
Westford, MA  — 1,440  32,607  400 1,468  32,979  5,100 2015 2013 108 Littleton Road
Weston, MA  — 1,160  6,200  1,555 1,160  7,755  1,879 2013 1998 135 North Avenue
Westworth
Village, TX  — 2,060  31,296  64 2,060  31,360  4,169 2014 2014 25 Leonard Trail
Weybridge, UK  — 7,899  48,240  4,888 8,496  52,531  14,169 2013 2008 Ellesmere Road
Weymouth, UK  — 2,591  16,551  1,841 2,824  18,159  2,702 2014 2013 Cross Road
White Oak, MD  — 2,304  24,768  2,991 2,358  27,705  6,232 2013 2002 11621 New Hampshire Avenue
Whitesboro, NY  — 1,575  11,873  789 1,575  12,662  737 2019 2015 4770 Clinton Road
Willoughby , OH — 1,298  10,514  662 1,298  11,176  688 2019 2016 35100 Chardon Road
Wilmington, DE  — 1,040  23,338  2,208 1,176  25,410  5,951 2013 2004 2215 Shipley Street
Winchester , UK — 6,009  29,405  3,178 6,471  32,121  8,270 2012 2010 Stockbridge Road
Winnipeg, MB  11,736 1,960  38,612  4,839 2,206  43,205  13,892 2013 1999 857 Wilkes Avenue
Winnipeg, MB  25,459 1,276  21,732  2,563 1,493  24,078  5,682 2013 1988 3161 Grant Avenue
Winnipeg, MB  12,328 1,317  15,609  2,937 1,420  18,443  3,740 2015 1999 125 Portsmouth Boulevard
Woking, UK  — 2,990  12,523  1,032 3,118 13,427  786 2016 2017 12 Streets Heath, West End
Wolverhampton,
UK  — 2,941  8,922  1,393 3,170  10,086  3,591 2013 2008 73 Wergs Road
Woodland Hills,
CA  — 3,400  20,478  1,383 3,447  21,814  5,855 2013 2005 20461 Ventura Boulevard
Yonkers, NY  — 3,962  50,107  2,314 3,956  52,427  12,283 2013 2005 65 Crisfield Street
Yorkton, SK  3,108 463 8,760  886 496 9,613  2,348 2013 2001 94 Russell Drive
Seniors
Housing
Operating
Total  $ 1,990,607 $1,383,927 $13,886,675 $1,879,176 $1,469,078 $15,680,700 $ 3,194,057  
104
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2019  
(Dollars in thousands)    Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description  Encumbrances  LandBuilding &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition Land  Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:           
Abilene, TX  $ — $ 950 $ 20,987  $ 11,660 $ 950 $ 32,647 $ 3,442 2014 1998 6565 Central Park Boulevard
Abilene, TX  — 990 8,187  1,089 990 9,276 1,262 2014 1985 1250 East N 10th Street
Aboite Twp, IN  — 1,770 19,930  1,601 1,770  21,531 5,178 2010 2008 611 W County Line Rd South
Agawam, MA  — 880 16,112 2,134 880 18,246 8,476 2002 1993 1200 Suf field St.
Akron, OH  — 633 3,003  — 633 3,003 121 2018 1999 171 North Cleveland Massillon Road
Alexandria, VA  — 2,452 6,829  — 2,452  6,829 267 2018 1964 1510 Collingwood Road
Alhambra, CA  — 600 6,305  8,847 600 15,152 2,322 2011 1923 1118 N. Stoneman Ave.
Allen Park, MI  — 1,767 5,027  — 1,767  5,027 199 2018 1960 9150 Allen Road
Allentown, P A  — 494 11,849  — 494 11,849 457 2018 1995 5151 Hamilton Boulevard
Allentown, P A  — 1,491 4,823  — 1,491  4,823 195 2018 1988 1265 Cedar Crest Boulevard
Ames, IA  — 330 8,870  — 330 8,870 2,314 2010 1999 1325 Coconino Rd.
Ann Arbor , MI  — 2,172 11,127  — 2,172  11,127 463 2018 1997 4701 East Huron River Drive
Annandale, VA  — 1,687 18,980  — 1,687  18,980 716 2018 2002 7104 Braddock Road
Arlington, VA  — 4,016 8,805  — 4,016  8,805 339 2018 1976 550 South Carlin Southprings Road
Asheboro, NC  — 290 5,032  261 290 5,293 2,265 2003 1998 514 Vision Dr .
Asheville, NC  — 204 3,489  — 204 3,489 1,938 1999 1999 4 Walden Ridge Dr .
Asheville, NC  — 280 1,955  518 280 2,473 1,086 2003 1992 308 Overlook Rd.
Atchison, KS  — 140 5,610  23 140 5,633 634 2015 2001 1301 N 4th St.
Aurora, CO  — 2,440 28,172  — 2,440  28,172 12,556 2006 2007 1421 1 E. Evans Ave.
Austin, TX  — 1,691 5,006  — 1,691  5,006 257 2018 2000 11630 Four Iron Drive
Avon, IN  — 1,830 14,470  — 1,830  14,470 3,942 2010 2004 182 S Country RD. 550E
Avon, IN  — 900 19,444  — 900 19,444 2,896 2014 2013 10307 E. CR 100 N
Avon, CT  — 2,132 7,627  — 2,132  7,627 359 2018 2000 100 Fisher Drive
Azusa, CA  — 570 3,141  7,429 570 10,570 3,172 1998 1953 125 W. Sierra Madre Ave.
Baldwin City , KS  — 190 4,810  55 190 4,865 560 2015 2000 321 Crimson Ave
Baltimore, MD  — 4,306 4,305  — 4,306  4,305 181 2018 1978 6600 Ridge Road
Baltimore, MD  — 3,069 3,150  — 3,069  3,150 141 2018 1996 4669 Falls Road
Barberton, OH  — 1,307 9,313  — 1,307  9,313 356 2018 1979 85 Third Street
Bartlesville, OK  — 100 1,380  — 100 1,380 860 1996 1995 5420 S.E. Adams Blvd.
Battle Creek, MI  — 857 1,822  — 857 1,822 99 2018 1965 200 Roosevelt Avenue East
Bay City , MI  — 633 2,620  — 633 2,620 115 2018 1968 800 Mulholland Street
Bedford, P A  — 637 4,434  — 637 4,434 201 2018 1965 136 Donahoe Manor Road
Belmont, CA  — 3,000 23,526  1,653 3,000  25,179 6,778 2011 1971 1301 Ralston Avenue
Belvidere, NJ  — 2,001 26,191  — 2,001  26,191 771 2019 2009 1 Brookfield Ct
Benbrook, TX  — 1,550 13,553  2,747 1,550  16,300 3,242 2011 1984 4242 Bryant Irvin Road
Berkeley , CA  11,947  3,050 32,677  4,982 3,050  37,659 5,614 2016 1966 2235 Sacramento Street
Bethel Park, P A  — 1,700 16,007  — 1,700  16,007 4,712 2007 2009 5785 Baptist Road
Bethel Park, P A  — 1,008 6,742  — 1,008  6,742 276 2018 1986 60 Highland Road
Bethesda, MD  — 2,218 6,871  — 2,218  6,871 259 2018 1974 6530 Democracy Boulevard
Bethlehem, P A  — 1,191 16,892  — 1,191  16,892 620 2018 1979 2021 Westgate Drive
(Dollars in thousands)   Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description Encumbrances Land Building &
ImprovementsCost
CapitalizedLand Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
BuiltAddress
Subsequent
to
Acquisition
Triple-net:          
Bethlehem, P A  — 1,143 13,592 — 1,143 13,592 502 2018 1982 2029 Westgate Drive
Beverly Hills, CA  — 6,000 13,385 — 6,000 13,385 1,761  2014 2000 220 N Clark Drive
Bexleyheath, UK  — 3,750 10,807 1,101 4,034 11,624 1,567  2014 1996 35 West Street
Bingham Farms, MI  — 781 15,676 — 781 15,676 597 2018 1999 24005 West 13 Mile Road
Birmingham, UK  — 1,647 14,853 1,246 1,771 15,975 1,964  2015 2010 Clinton Street, Winson Green
Birmingham, UK  — 1,591 19,092 1,564 1,712 20,535 2,488  2015 2010 Braymoor Road, Tile Cross
Birmingham, UK  — 1,462 9,056 794 1,572 9,740 1,216  2015 2010 Clinton Street, Winson Green
Birmingham, UK  — 1,184 10,085 852 1,274 10,847 1,324  2015 1997 122 Tile Cross Road, Garretts Green
Bloomington, IN  — 670 17,423 — 670 17,423 2,146  2015 2015 363 S. Fieldstone Boulevard
Boca Raton, FL  — 2,200 4,976 — 2,200 4,976 247 2018 1994 7225 Boca Del Mar Drive
Boca Raton, FL  — 2,826 4,063 — 2,826 4,063 180 2018 1984 375 Northwest 51st Street
Boulder , CO  — 3,601 21,371 — 3,601 21,371 870 2018 1990 2800 Palo Parkway
Bournemouth, UK  — 2,589 15,984 — 2,589 15,984 44 2019 2017 Poole Lane
Boynton Beach, FL  — 2,138 10,204 — 2,138 10,204 425 2018 1991 3600 Old Boynton Road
Boynton Beach, FL  — 2,804 14,226 — 2,804 14,226 541 2018 1984 3001 South Congress Avenue
Bracknell, UK  — 4,081 11,470 217 4,246 11,522 713 2014 2017 Bagshot Road
Bradenton, FL  — 252 3,298 — 252 3,298 2,068  1996 1995 6101 Pointe W. Blvd.
Bradenton, FL  — 480 9,953 110 480 10,063 1,978  2012 2000 2800 60th Avenue West
Braintree, MA  — 170 7,157 1,290 170 8,447 8,444  1997 1968 1102 Washington St.
Braintree, UK  — — 13,296 1,005 — 14,301 2,010  2014 2009 Meadow Park Tortoiseshell Way
Brecksville, OH  — 990 19,353 — 990 19,353 2,872  2014 2011 8757 Brecksville Road
Brentwood, UK  34,515 8,537 45,869 4,443 9,182 49,667 3,992  2016 2013 London Road
Brick, NJ  — 1,290 25,247 1,330 1,290 26,577 5,851  2011 2000 458 Jack Martin Blvd.
Bridgewater , NJ  — 1,800 31,810 1,678 1,800 33,488 7,340  2011 2001 680 US-202/206 North
Bristol, UK  — 4,256 17,962 — 4,256 17,962 411 2015 2017 339 Badminton Road
Bristol, UK  — 2,270 13,030 — 2,270 13,030 183 2017 2019Avon Valley Care Home, Tenniscourt
Road
Brooks, AB  1,747 376 4,951 370 401 5,296 768 2014 2000 951 Cassils Road West
Bucyrus, OH  — 1,119 2,612 — 1,119 2,612 122 2018 1976 1170 West Mansfield Street
Burleson, TX  — 670 13,985 2,457 670 16,442 3,430  2011 1988 300 Huguley Boulevard
Burlington, NC  — 280 4,297 835 280 5,132 2,157  2003 2000 3619 S. Mebane St.
Burlington, NC  — 460 5,467 53 460 5,520 2,400  2003 1997 3615 S. Mebane St.
Burlington, NJ  — 1,700 12,554 501 1,700 13,055 3,652  2011 1965 115 Sunset Road
Burlington, NJ  — 1,170 19,205 172 1,170 19,377 4,657  2011 1994 2305 Rancocas Road
Burnaby , BC  7,292 7,623 13,844 1,463 8,139 14,791 2,177  2014 2006 7195 Canada Way
Calgary , AB  14,841 2,341 42,768 3,122 2,500 45,731 6,386  2014 1971 1729-90th Avenue SW
Calgary , AB  24,614 4,569 70,199 5,069 4,878 74,959 10,375  2014 2001 500 Midpark Way SE
Camberley , UK  — 9,974 39,168 1,984 10,376 40,750 2,725  2016 2017 Pembroke Broadway
Camp Hill, P A  — 517 3,597 — 517 3,597 142 2018 1970 1700 Market Street
Canonsbur g, PA  — 911 4,830 — 911 4,830 207 2018 1986 113 West McMurray Road
Canton, OH  — 300 2,098 — 300 2,098 1,165  1998 1998 1119 Perry Dr ., N.W .
Canton, MI  — 1,399 16,971 — 1,399 16,971 644 2018 2005 7025 Lilley Road
Cape Coral, FL  — 530 3,281 — 530 3,281 1,551  2002 2000 911 Santa Barbara Blvd.
Cape Coral, FL  8,135 760 18,868 106 760 18,974 3,788  2012 2009 831 Santa Barbara Boulevard
Cape May Court
House, NJ  — 1,440 17,002 1,775 1,440 18,777 2,784  2014 1990 144 Magnolia Drive
Carlisle, P A  — 978 8,207 — 978 8,207 331 2018 1987 940 Walnut Bottom Road
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:         
Carmel, IN — 1,700 19,491 1 1,700 19,492 2,521 2015 2015 12315 Pennsylvania Street
Carmel, IN — 1,583 6,071 — 1,583 6,071 263 2018 1985 12999 North Pennsylvania Street
Carmel, IN — — 2,296 — — 2,296 82 2018 1985 12999 North Pennsylvania Street
Carrollton, TX — 2,010 19,549 — 2,010 19,549 1,724 2014 2016 2645 East Trinity Mills Road
Cary , NC — 1,500 4,350 1,051 1,500 5,401 2,827 1998 1996 111 MacArthur
Castleton, IN — 920 15,137 — 920 15,137 2,343 2014 2013 8405 Clearvista Lake
Cedar Grove, NJ — 2,850 27,737 20 2,850 27,757 6,753 2011 1970 536 Ridge Road
Cedar Rapids, IA — 596 9,354 — 596 9,354 348 2018 1965 1940 1st Avenue Northeast
Centerville, OH — 920 3,960 — 920 3,960 228 2018 1997 1001 E. Alex Bell Road
Chagrin Falls, OH — 832 10,841 — 832 10,841 431 2018 1999 8100 East Washington Street
Chambersbur g, PA — 1,373 8,864 — 1,373 8,864 370 2018 1976 1070 Stouf fer Avenue
Chapel Hill, NC — 354 2,646 1,034 354 3,680 1,587 2002 1997 100 Lanark Rd.
Charleston, SC — 1,333 5,556 — 1,333 5,556 220 2018 1982 1137 Sam Rittenber g Boulevard
Charleston, WV — 440 17,575 306 440 17,881 4,158 2011 19981000 Association Drive, North Gate
Business Park
Chatham, VA — 320 14,039 — 320 14,039 2,222 2014 2009 100 Rorer Street
Cherry Hill, NJ — 1,416 9,874 — 1,416 9,874 408 2018 1997 2700 Chapel Avenue West
Chester , VA — 1,320 18,127 — 1,320 18,127 2,844 2014 2009 12001 Iron Bridge Road
Chevy Chase, MD — 4,515 8,688 — 4,515 8,688 338 2018 1964 8700 Jones Mill Road
Chickasha, OK — 85 1,395 — 85 1,395 863 1996 1996 801 Country Club Rd.
Chillicothe, OH — 1,145 8,997 — 1,145 8,997 348 2018 1977 1058 Columbus Street
Cincinnati, OH — 912 14,014 — 912 14,014 550 2018 2000 6870 Clough Pike
Citrus Heights, CA — 5,207 31,725 — 5,207 31,725 1,172 2018 1988 7807 Upland Way
Claremore, OK — 155 1,427 6,130 155 7,557 1,783 1996 1996 1605 N. Hwy . 88
Clarksville, TN — 330 2,292 — 330 2,292 1,267 1998 1998 2183 Memorial Dr .
Clayton, NC — 520 15,733 — 520 15,733 2,204 2014 2013 84 Johnson Estate Road
Cleburne, TX — 520 5,369 — 520 5,369 1,814 2006 2007 402 S Colonial Drive
Clevedon, UK — 2,838 16,927 1,493 3,052 18,206 2,558 2014 1994 18/19 Elton Road
Cloquet, MN — 340 4,660 120 340 4,780 1,104 2011 2006 705 Horizon Circle
Cobham, UK — 9,808 24,991 2,629 10,549 26,879 4,507 2013 2013 Redhill Road
Colchester , CT — 980 4,860 544 980 5,404 1,636 2011 1986 59 Harrington Court
Colorado Springs, CO — 4,280 62,168 — 4,280 62,168 6,926 2015 2008 1605 Elm Creek View
Colorado Springs, CO — 1,730 25,493 693 1,730 26,186 2,760 2016 2016 2818 Grand Vista Circle
Columbia, TN — 341 2,295 — 341 2,295 1,271 1999 1999 5011 Trotwood Ave.
Columbia, SC — 1,699 2,320 — 1,699 2,320 100 2018 1968 2601 Forest Drive
Columbia Heights, MN — 825 14,175 163 825 14,338 3,117 2011 2009 3807 Hart Boulevard
Columbus, IN — 610 3,190 — 610 3,190 852 2010 1998 2564 Foxpointe Dr .
Concord, NC — 550 3,921 270 550 4,191 1,871 2003 1997 2452 Rock Hill Church Rd.
Concord, NH — 1,760 43,179 634 1,760 43,813 10,199 2011 1994 239 Pleasant Street
Congleton, UK — 2,036 5,120 540 2,189 5,507 744 2014 1994 Rood Hill
Conroe, TX — 980 7,771 — 980 7,771 2,193 2009 2010 903 Longmire Road
Coppell, TX — 1,550 8,386 169 1,550 8,555 1,609 2012 2013 1530 East Sandy Lake Road
Corby , UK — 1,228 5,144 672 1,204 5,840 418 2017 1997 25 Rockingham Road
Costa Mesa, CA — 2,050 19,969 969 2,050 20,938 5,806 2011 1965 350 West Bay St
Coventry , UK — 1,962 13,830 1,193 2,110 14,875 1,885 2015 2014 Banner Lane, Tile Hill
Crawfordsville, IN — 720 17,239 1,426 720 18,665 2,794 2014 2013 517 Concord Road
(Dollars in thousands)    Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description  Encumbrances  Land  Building &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Triple-net:                
Dallastown, P A  — 1,377  16,802  — 1,377  16,802  661 2018  1979  100 West Queen Street
Danville, VA  — 410 3,954  829 410 4,783  2,072 2003  1998  149 Executive Ct.
Danville, VA  — 240 8,436  — 240 8,436  1,352 2014  1996  508 Rison Street
Daphne, AL  — 2,880  8,670  384 2,880  9,054  1,884 2012  2001  27440 County Road 13
Davenport, IA  — 566 2,017  — 566 2,017  81 2018  1966  815 East Locust Street
Davenport, IA  — 910 20,043  — 910 20,043  766 2018  2008  3800 Commerce Blvd.
Dayton, OH  — 1,188  5,414  — 1,188  5,414  227 2018  1977  1974 North Fairfield Road
Dearborn Heights, MI  — 1,197  3,396  — 1,197  3,396  157 2018  1964  26001 Ford Road
Decatur , GA  — 1,413  13,800  — 1,413  13,800  505 2018  1977  2722 North Decatur Road
Delray Beach, FL  — 1,158  13,576  — 1,158  13,576  537 2018  1998  16150 Jog Road
Delray Beach, FL  — 2,125  11,844  — 2,125  11,844  482 2018  1998  16200 Jog Road
Denton, TX  — 1,760  8,305  175 1,760  8,480  2,060 2010  2011 2125 Brinker Rd
Denver , CO  — 3,222  24,81 1 — 3,222  24,81 1 912 2018  1988  290 South Monaco Parkway
Derby , UK  — 2,359  8,539  441 2,455  8,884  963 2014  2015  Rykneld Road
Dover , DE  — 600 22,266  141 600 22,407  5,331 2011 1984  1080 Silver Lake Blvd.
Dublin, OH  — 1,393  2,912  — 1,393  2,912  139 2018  2014  4075 W. Dublin-Granville Road
Dubuque, IA  — 568 8,904  — 568 8,904  332 2018  1971  901 West Third Street
Dunedin, FL  — 1,883  13,329  — 1,883  13,329  500 2018  1983  870 Patricia Avenue
Durham, NC  — 1,476  10,659  2,587  1,476  13,246  12,451 1997  1999  4434 Ben Franklin Blvd.
Eagan, MN  16,186  2,260  31,643  300 2,260  31,943  3,572 2015  2004  3810 Alder Avenue
East Brunswick, NJ  — 1,380  34,229  1,093  1,380  35,322  7,664 2011 1998  606 Cranbury Rd.
Eastbourne, UK  — 4,071  24,438  2,154  4,379  26,284  3,646 2014  1999  Carew Road
Easton, P A  — 1,109  7,502  — 1,109  7,502  384 2018  2015  4100 Freemansbur g Avenue
Easton, P A  — 1,430  13,400  — 1,430  13,400  529 2018  1981  2600 Northampton Street
Easton, P A  — 1,620  10,052  — 1,620  10,052  469 2018  2000  4100 Freemansbur g Avenue
Eden, NC  — 390 4,877  20 390 4,897  2,162 2003  1998  314 W. Kings Hwy .
Edmond, OK  — 410 8,388  — 410 8,388  1,766 2012  2001  15401 North Pennsylvania Avenue
Edmond, OK  — 1,810  14,849  3,260  1,810  18,109  2,425 2014  1985  1225 Lakeshore Drive
Edmond, OK  — 1,650  25,167  1,700  1,650  26,867  2,103 2014  2017  2709 East Danforth Road
Elizabeth City , NC  — 200 2,760  2,165  200 4,925  2,376 1998  1999  400 Hastings Lane
Elk Grove Village, IL  — 1,344  7,076  — 1,344  7,076  292 2018  1995  1940 Ner ge Road Elk
Elk Grove Village, IL  — 3,733  18,751  — 3,733  18,751  685 2018  1988  1920 Ner ge Road
Encinitas, CA  — 1,460  7,721  1,987  1,460  9,708  4,196 2000  1988  335 Saxony Rd.
Englewood, NJ  — 930 4,514  26 930 4,540  1,215 2011 1966  333 Grand Avenue
Epsom, UK  33,969  20,159  34,803  4,554  21,682  37,834  3,062 2016  2014  450-458 Reigate Road
Escondido, CA  — 1,520  24,024  785 1,520  24,809  6,863 2011 1987  1500 Borden Rd
Eureka, KS  — 50 3,950  71 50 4,021  453 2015  1994  1820 E River St
Everett, WA  — 1,400  5,476  — 1,400  5,476  2,950 1999  1999  2015 Lake Heights Dr .
Exton, P A  — 3,600  27,267  — 3,600  27,267  1,193 2017  2018  501 Thomas Jones Way
Fairfax, VA  — 1,827  17,309  — 1,827  17,309  690 2018  1997  12469 Lee Jackson Mem Highway
Fairfax, VA  — 4,099  17,620  — 4,099  17,620  687 2018  1990  12475 Lee Jackson Memorial
Highway
Fairhope, AL  — 570 9,119 112 570 9,231  1,910 2012  1987  50 Spring Run Road
Fall River , MA  — 620 5,829  4,856  620 10,685  5,715 1996  1973  1748 Highland Ave.
Fanwood, NJ  — 2,850  55,175  1,467  2,850  56,642  12,133 2011 1982  295 South Ave.
Faribault, MN  — 780 11,539  300 780 11,839  1,269 2015  2003  828 1st Street NE
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Triple-net:           
Farmington, CT — 1,693 10,459 — 1,693 10,459 425 2018  1997  45 South Road
Farnborough, UK — 2,036 5,737 586 2,189 6,170 810 2014  1980  Bruntile Close, Reading Road
Fayetteville, P A — 2,150 32,951 2,468 2,150 35,419 4,037 2015  1991  6375 Chambersbur g Road
Fayetteville, NY — 410 3,962 500 410 4,462 2,080 2001  1997  5125 Highbridge St.
Findlay , OH — 200 1,800 — 200 1,800 1,061 1997  1997  725 Fox Run Rd.
Fishers, IN — 1,500 14,500 — 1,500 14,500 3,949 2010  2000  9745 Olympia Dr .
Fishersville, VA — 788 2,101 — 788 2,101 672 2018  1998  83 Crossroad Lane
Flint, MI — 1,271 18,056 — 1,271 18,056 668 2018  1969  3011 North Center Road
Florence, NJ — 300 2,978 — 300 2,978 1,403 2002  1999  901 Broad St.
Flourtown, P A — 1,800 14,830 266 1,800 15,096 3,728 2011 1908  350 Haws Lane
Flower Mound, TX — 1,800 8,414 174 1,800 8,588 1,803 2011 2012  4141 Long Prairie Road
Floyd, VA — 680 3,618 — 680 3,618 463 2018  1979  237 Franklin Pike Rd SE
Flushing, MI — 690 1,702 — 690 1,702 105 2018  1999  640 Sunnyside Drive
Flushing, MI — 1,415 8,536 — 1,415 8,536 347 2018  1967  540 Sunnyside Drive
Forest City , NC — 320 4,497 38 320 4,535 2,007 2003  1999  493 Piney Ridge Rd.
Fort Ashby , WV — 330 19,566 356 330 19,922 4,597 2011 1980  Diane Drive, Box 686
Fort Collins, CO — 3,680 58,608 — 3,680 58,608 6,508 2015  2007  4750 Pleasant Oak Drive
Fort Collins, CO — 890 4,532 — 890 4,532 376 2018  1965  1005 East Elizabeth
Fort Worth, TX — 450 13,615 5,086 450 18,701 4,812 2010  2011 425 Alabama Ave.
Fountain Valley , CA — 5,259 9,379 — 5,259 9,379 365 2018  1988  11680 Warner Avenue
Franconia, NH — 360 11,320 70 360 11,390 2,748 2011 1971  93 Main Street
Fredericksbur g, VA — 1,000 20,000 2,070 1,000 22,070 7,918 2005  1999  3500 Meekins Dr .
Fredericksbur g, VA — 1,130 23,202 — 1,130 23,202 3,363 2014  2010  140 Brimley Drive
Ft. Myers, FL — 1,110 10,562 — 1,110 10,562 422 2018  1999  15950 McGregor Boulevard
Ft. Myers, FL — 2,139 18,240 — 2,139 18,240 713 2018  1990  1600 Matthew Drive
Ft. Myers, FL — 2,502 9,744 — 2,502 9,744 461 2018  2000  13881 Eagle Ridge Drive
Gainesville, FL — 2,374 29,088 — 2,374 29,088 75 2016  2018  3605 NW  83rd Street
Galesbur g, IL — 1,708 3,841 — 1,708 3,841 152 2018  1964  280 East Losey Street
Gardner , KS — 200 2,800 93 200 2,893 346 2015  2000  869 Juniper Terrace
Gastonia, NC — 470 6,129 17 470 6,146 2,680 2003  1998  1680 S. New Hope Rd.
Gastonia, NC — 310 3,096 36 310 3,132 1,426 2003  1994  1717 Union Rd.
Gastonia, NC — 400 5,029 202 400 5,231 2,264 2003  1996  1750 Robinwood Rd.
Geneva, IL — 1,502 16,198 — 1,502 16,198 631 2018  2000  2388 Bricher Road
Geor getown, TX — 200 2,100 — 200 2,100 1,227 1997  1997  2600 University Dr ., E.
Gig Harbor , WA — 3,000 4,463 — 3,000 4,463 213 2018  1990  3309 45th Street Court Northwest
Glen Ellyn, IL — 1,496 6,636 — 1,496 6,636 288 2018  2001  2S706 Park Boulevard
Granbury , TX — 2,550 2,940 777 2,550 3,717 876 2012  1996  916 East Highway 377
Granger , IN — 1,670 21,280 2,401 1,670 23,681 5,629 2010  2009  6330 North Fir Rd
Grapevine, TX — 2,220 17,648 69 2,220 17,717 2,003 2013  2014  4545 Merlot Drive
Greeley , CO — 1,077 18,051 — 1,077 18,051 1,341 2017  2009  5300 West 29th Street
Greensboro, NC — 330 2,970 594 330 3,564 1,587 2003  1996  5809 Old Oak Ridge Rd.
Greensboro, NC — 560 5,507 1,332 560 6,839 2,921 2003  1997  4400 Lawndale Dr .
Greenville, SC — 310 4,750 — 310 4,750 2,034 2004  1997  23 Southpointe Dr .
Greenville, SC — 1,751 8,774 — 1,751 8,774 351 2018  1966  600 Sulphur Springs Road
Greenville, SC — 947 1,445 — 947 1,445 97 2018  1976  601 Sulphur Springs Road
(Dollars in thousands)   Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period       
Description  Encumbrances LandBuilding &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Triple-net:             
Greenville, NC  — 290 4,393  236 290 4,629 1,989  2003  1998  2715 Dickinson Ave.
Greenwood, IN  — 1,550 22,770  81 1,550 22,851 5,530  2010  2007  2339 South SR 135
Grosse Pointe, MI  — 867 2,386  — 867 2,386 100 2018  1964  21401 Mack Avenue
Groton, CT  — 2,430 19,941  968 2,430 20,909 5,411 2011 1975  1145 Poquonnock Road
Hamilton, NJ  — 440 4,469  — 440 4,469 2,098  2001  1998  1645 Whitehorse-Mercerville Rd.
Hanahan, SC  — 1,934 3,988  — 1,934 3,988 190 2018  1989  1800 Eagle Landing Boulevard
Hanford, UK  — 1,382 9,829  846 1,486 10,571 1,791  2013  2012  Bankhouse Road
Harrisbur g, PA  — 569 12,826  — 569 12,826 497 2018  2000  2625 Ailanthus Lane
Harrow , UK  — 7,402 8,266  1,183 7,961 8,890 1,248  2014  2001  177 Preston Hill
Hatboro, P A  — — 28,112 1,771 — 29,883 6,894  2011 1996  3485 Davisville Road
Hatboro, P A  — 1,192 7,611 — 1,192 7,611 402 2018  2000  779 West County Line Road
Hatfield, UK  — 2,924 7,527  789 3,145 8,095 1,382  2013  2012  St Albans Road East
Hattiesbur g, MS  — 450 13,469  — 450 13,469 3,099  2010  2009  217 Methodist Hospital Blvd
Hemet, CA  — 6,224 8,414  — 6,224 8,414 339 2018  1989  1717 West Stetson Avenue
Henry , IL  — 1,860 3,689  — 1,860 3,689 141 2018  1987  1650 Old Indian Town Road
Hermitage, TN  — 1,500 9,943  540 1,500 10,483 2,212  2011 2006  4131 Andrew Jackson Parkway
Herne Bay , UK  — 1,900 24,353  2,726 2,043 26,936 4,843  2013  2011 165 Reculver Road
Hiawatha, KS  — 40 4,210  29 40 4,239 495 2015  1996  400 Kansas Ave
Hickory , NC  — 290 987 312 290 1,299 673 2003  1994  2530 16th St. N.E.
High Point, NC  — 560 4,443  848 560 5,291 2,327  2003  2000  1568 Skeet Club Rd.
High Point, NC  — 370 2,185  451 370 2,636 1,207  2003  1999  1564 Skeet Club Rd.
High Point, NC  — 330 3,395  108 330 3,503 1,530  2003  1994  201 W. Hartley Dr .
High Point, NC  — 430 4,143  36 430 4,179 1,840  2003  1998  1560 Skeet Club Rd.
Highlands Ranch, CO  — 940 3,721  4,983 940 8,704 2,516  2002  1999  9160 S. University Blvd.
Hillsboro, OH  — 1,792 6,341  — 1,792 6,341 347 2018  1983  1141 Northview Drive
Hinckley , UK  — 2,159 4,194  480 2,322 4,511 843 2013  2013  Tudor Road
Hindhead, UK  39,141 17,852 48,645  5,405 19,200 52,702 4,171  2016  2012  Portsmouth Road
Hinsdale, IL  — 4,033 24,287  — 4,033 24,287 894 2018  1971  600 W Ogden Avenue
Hockessin, DE  — 1,120 6,308  1,247 1,120 7,555 1,163  2014  1992  100 Saint Claire Drive
Holton, KS  — 40 7,460  13 40 7,473 814 2015  1996  410 Juniper Dr
Homewood, IL  — 2,395 7,652  — 2,395 7,652 288 2018  1989  940 Maple Avenue
Howard, WI  — 579 32,122  10 579 32,132 2,040  2017  2016  2790 Elm Tree Hill
Huntingdon Valley , PA — 1,150 3,730  — 1,150 3,730 209 2018  1993  3430 Huntingdon Pike
Hutchinson, KS  — 600 10,590  194 600 10,784 4,242  2004  1997  2416 Brentwood
Independence, VA  — 1,082 6,767  — 1,082 6,767 829 2018  1998  400 S Independence Ave
Indianapolis, IN  — 870 14,688  — 870 14,688 2,283  2014  2014  1635 N Arlington Avenue
Indianapolis, IN  — 1,105 6,645  — 1,105 6,645 252 2018  1979  8549 South Madison Avenue
Jackson, NJ  — 6,500 26,405  3,107 6,500 29,512 5,334  2012  2001  2 Kathleen Drive
Jacksonville, FL  — 750 25,231  111 750 25,342 2,303  2013  2014  5939 Roosevelt Boulevard
Jacksonville, FL  — — 26,381  1,801 1,691 26,491 2,403  2013  2014  4000 San Pablo Parkway
Jacksonville, FL  — 1,752 2,553  — 1,752 2,553 102 2018  1989  3648 University Blvd South
Jacksonville, FL  — 2,182 9,491  — 2,182 9,491 406 2018  1980  8495 Normandy Blvd
Jefferson Hills, P A  — 2,265 13,618  — 2,265 13,618 771 2018  1997  380 Wray Lar ge Road
Jersey Shore, P A  — 600 8,107  — 600 8,107 294 2018  1973  1008 Thompson Street
Kansas City , KS  — 700 20,115 — 700 20,115 2,322  2015  2015  8900 Parallel Parkway
(Dollars in thousands)   Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period       
Description Encumbrances  LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Triple-net:            
Katy , TX — 1,778 22,622 — 1,778 22,622 1,707  2017  2015  24802 Kingsland Boulevard
Kensington, MD — 1,753 18,626 — 1,753 18,626 699 2018  2002  4301 Knowles Avenue
Kenwood, OH — 821 11,043 — 821 11,043 428 2018  2000  4580 East Galbraith Road
Kettering, OH — 1,229 4,703 — 1,229 4,703 207 2018  1977  3313 Wilmington Pike
King of Prussia, P A — 720 14,780 — 720 14,780 594 2018  1995  620 West Valley For ge Road
King of Prussia, P A — 1,205 4,727 — 1,205 4,727 225 2018  1990  600 West Valley For ge Road
Kingsford, MI — 1,362 10,598 — 1,362 10,598 428 2018  1968  1225 Woodward Avenue
Kingston, P A — 986 5,711 — 986 5,711 225 2018  1974  200 Second Avenue
Kingston upon Thames,
UK 71,089  33,063 46,696 6,439 35,561 50,637 4,056  2016  2014  Coombe Lane West
Kirkstall, UK — 2,437 9,414 896 2,621 10,126 1,720  2013  2009  29 Broad Lane
Kokomo, IN — 710 16,044 — 710 16,044 2,488  2014  2014  2200 S. Dixon Rd
Lacey , WA — 2,582 18,180 — 2,582 18,180 692 2018  2012  4524 Intelco Loop SE
Lafayette, CO — 1,420 20,192 — 1,420 20,192 2,572  2015  2015  329 Exempla Circle
Lafayette, IN — 670 16,833 1 670 16,834 2,368  2015  2014  2402 South Street
Lakeway , TX — 5,142 23,203 — 5,142 23,203 3,995  2007  2011 2000 Medical Dr
Lakewood, CO — 2,160 28,091 62 2,160 28,153 4,299  2014  2010  7395 West Eastman Place
Lakewood Ranch, FL — 650 6,714 1,988 650 8,702 1,726  2011 2012  8230 Nature's Way
Lakewood Ranch, FL — 1,000 22,388 86 1,000 22,474 4,410  2012  2005  8220 Natures Way
Lancaster , PA — 1,680 14,039 — 1,680 14,039 1,159  2015  2017  31 Millersville Road
Lancaster , PA — 1,011 7,504 — 1,011 7,504 296 2018  1966  100 Abbeyville Road
Largo, FL — 1,166 3,427 — 1,166 3,427 175 2018  1997  300 Highland Avenue Northeast
Las Vegas, NV — 580 23,420 — 580 23,420 5,220  2011 2002  2500 North Tenaya Way
Laureldale, P A — 1,171 14,424 — 1,171 14,424 549 2018  1980  2125 Elizabeth Avenue
Lawrence, KS — 250 8,716 — 250 8,716 1,697  2012  1996  3220 Peterson Road
Lebanon, P A — 728 10,370 — 728 10,370 432 2018  1998  100 Tuck Court
Lebanon, P A — 1,214 5,962 — 1,214 5,962 278 2018  1980  900 Tuck Street
Lee, MA — 290 18,135 926 290 19,061 8,860  2002  1998  600 & 620 Laurel St.
Leeds, UK — 1,974 13,239 1,149 2,123 14,239 1,728  2015  2013  100 Grove Lane
Leicester , UK — 3,060 24,410 2,075 3,291 26,254 4,798  2012  2010  307 London Road
Lenoir , NC — 190 3,748 718 190 4,466 1,945  2003  1998  1145 Powell Rd., N.E.
Lethbridge, AB 1,305  1,214 2,750 279 1,296 2,947 554 2014  2003  785 Columbia Boulevard West
Lexana, KS — 480 1,770 152 480 1,922 247 2015  1994  8710 Caenen Lake Rd
Lexington, NC — 200 3,900 1,090 200 4,990 2,243  2002  1997  161 Young Dr .
Libertyville, IL — 6,500 40,024 — 6,500 40,024 9,587  2011 2001  901 Florsheim Dr
Libertyville, IL — 2,993 11,550 — 2,993 11,550 431 2018  1988  1500 South Milwaukee
Lichfield, UK — 1,382 30,324 2,395 1,486 32,615 3,979  2015  2012  Wissage Road
Lillington, NC — 470 17,579 — 470 17,579 2,626  2014  2013  54 Red Mulberry Way
Lillington, NC — 500 16,451 — 500 16,451 2,307  2014  1999  2041 NC-210 N
Lincoln, NE — 390 13,807 95 390 13,902 3,519  2010  2000  7208 Van Dorn St.
Lititz, P A — 1,200 13,836 — 1,200 13,836 1,144  2015  2016  80 West Millport Road
Livermore, CA — 4,100 24,996 — 4,100 24,996 3,276  2014  1974  35 Fenton Street
Livonia, MI — 985 13,558 — 985 13,558 544 2018  1999  32500 Seven Mile Road
Livonia, MI — 1,836 2,278 — 1,836 2,278 109 2018  1960  28550 Five Mile Road
Longview , TX — 610 5,520 — 610 5,520 1,873  2006  2007  311 E Hawkins Pkwy
Longwood, FL — 1,260 6,445 — 1,260 6,445 1,552  2011 2011 425 South Ronald Reagan Boulevard
(Dollars in thousands)   Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description  Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Triple-net:           
Los Angeles, CA  — — 11,430 1,050 — 12,480 3,242 2008  1971  330 North Hayworth Avenue
Louisbur g, KS  — 280 4,320 44 280 4,364 481 2015  1996  202 Rogers St
Louisville, KY  — 490 10,010 2,768 490 12,778 5,144 2005  1978  4604 Lowe Rd
Loxley , UK  — 1,369 15,668 1,288 1,473 16,852 3,003 2013  2008  Loxley Road
Lutherville, MD  — 1,100 19,786 1,744 1,100 21,530 5,068 2011 1988  515 Brightfield Road
Lynchbur g, VA  — 340 16,114 — 340 16,114 2,444 2014  2013  189 Monica Blvd
Lynchbur g, VA  — 2,904 3,697 — 2,904 3,697 144 2018  1978  2200 Landover Place
Lynnwood, WA  — 2,302 5,634 — 2,302 5,634 222 2018  1987  3701 188th Street
Macomb, IL  — 1,586 4,059 — 1,586 4,059 153 2018  1966  8 Doctors Lane
Macungie, P A  — 960 29,033 84 960 29,117 6,833 2011 1994  1718 Spring Creek Road
Manalapan, NJ  — 900 22,624 760 900 23,384 5,094 2011 2001  445 Route 9 South
Manassas, VA  — 750 7,446 1,069 750 8,515 3,285 2003  1996  8341 Barrett Dr .
Mankato, MN  — 1,460 32,104 300 1,460 32,404 3,451 2015  2006  100 Dublin Road
Mansfield, TX  — 660 5,251 — 660 5,251 1,802 2006  2007  2281 Country Club Dr
Marietta, OH  — 1,149 9,376 — 1,149 9,376 362 2018  1977  5001 State Route 60
Marietta, GA  — 2,406 12,233 — 2,406 12,233 462 2018  1980  4360 Johnson Ferry Place
Marietta, P A  — 1,050 13,633 463 1,050 14,096 1,585 2015  1999  2760 Maytown Road
Marion, IN  — 720 12,750 1,136 720 13,886 2,086 2014  2012  614 W. 14th Street
Marion, IN  — 990 9,190 824 990 10,014 1,782 2014  1976  505 N. Bradner Avenue
Marion, OH  — 2,768 17,420 — 2,768 17,420 856 2018  2004  400 Barks Road West
Marlborough, UK  — 2,677 6,822 718 2,879 7,338 1,006 2014  1999  The Common
Marlow , UK  — 9,068 39,720 1,970 9,434 41,324 4,037 2013  2014  210 Little Marlow Road
Martinsville, VA  — 349 — — 349 — — 2003  1900  Rolling Hills Rd. & US Hwy . 58
Matawan, NJ  — 1,830 20,618 166 1,830 20,784 4,764 2011 1965  625 State Highway 34
Matthews, NC  — 560 4,738 39 560 4,777 2,141 2003  1998  2404 Plantation Center Dr .
McHenry , IL  — 1,576 — — 1,576 — — 2006  1900  5200 Block of Bull Valley Road
McKinney , TX  — 1,570 7,389 — 1,570 7,389 2,096 2009  2010  2701 Alma Rd.
McMurray , PA  — 1,440 15,805 3,894 1,440 19,699 4,190 2010  2011 240 Cedar Hill Dr
Medicine Hat, AB  2,144 932 5,566 450 995 5,953 889 2014  1999  65 Valleyview Drive SW
Mentor , OH  — 1,827 9,941 — 1,827 9,941 389 2018  1985  8200 Mentor Hills Drive
Mercerville, NJ  — 860 9,929 173 860 10,102 2,619 2011 1967  2240 White Horse- Merceville Road
Meriden, CT  — 1,300 1,472 233 1,300 1,705 848 2011 1968  845 Paddock Ave
Miamisbur g, OH  — 786 3,233 — 786 3,233 178 2018  1983  450 Oak Ridge Boulevard
Middlebur g Heights,
OH  — 960 7,780 427 960 8,207 3,134 2004  1998  15435 Bagley Rd.
Middleton, WI  — 420 4,006 600 420 4,606 2,028 2001  1991  6701 Stonefield Rd.
Milton Keynes, UK  — 1,826 18,654 1,547 1,964 20,063 2,520 2015  2007  Tunbridge Grove, Kents Hill
Minnetonka, MN  — 2,080 24,360 1,554 2,080 25,914 6,078 2012  1999  500 Carlson Parkway
Mishawaka, IN  — 740 16,113 — 740 16,113 2,565 2014  2013  60257 Bodnar Blvd
Moline, IL  — 2,946 18,677 — 2,946 18,677 682 2018  1964  833 Sixteenth Avenue
Monmouth Junction,
NJ  — 720 6,209 86 720 6,295 1,721 2011 1996  2 Deer Park Drive
Monroe, NC  — 470 3,681 788 470 4,469 1,950 2003  2001  918 Fitzgerald St.
Monroe, NC  — 310 4,799 883 310 5,682 2,450 2003  2000  919 Fitzgerald St.
Monroe, NC  — 450 4,021 154 450 4,175 1,860 2003  1997  1316 Patterson Ave.
Monroe Township, NJ  — 3,250 27,771 765 3,250 28,536 2,966 2015  1996  319 Forsgate Drive
Monroeville, P A  — 1,216 12,753 — 1,216 12,753 593 2018  1997  120 Wyngate Drive
(Dollars in thousands)    Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description  Encumbrances  Land  Building &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:               
Monroeville, P A  — 1,237  3,642  — 1,237  3,642  225 2018 1996 885 MacBeth Drive
Montgomeryville, P A — 1,176  9,827  — 1,176  9,827  404 2018 1989 640 Bethlehem Pike
Montville, NJ  — 3,500  31,002  1,699  3,500  32,701  7,173  2011 1988 165 Changebridge Rd.
Moorestown, NJ  — 4,143  23,902  — 4,143  23,902  3,947  2012 2014 250 Marter Avenue
Morehead City , NC  — 200 3,104  1,701  200 4,805  2,371  1999 1999 107 Bryan St.
Morrison, CO  — 2,720  16,261  — 2,720  16,261  1,359  2018 1974 150 Spring Street
Moulton, UK  — 1,695  12,510  1,611 1,662  14,154  960 2017 1995 Northampton Lane North
Mountainside, NJ  — 3,097  7,810  — 3,097  7,810  309 2018 1988 1180 Route 22
Nacogdoches, TX  — 390 5,754  — 390 5,754  1,948  2006 2007 5902 North St
Naperville, IL  — 3,470  29,547  — 3,470  29,547  7,214  2011 2001 504 North River Road
Naples, FL  — 1,222  10,642  — 1,222  10,642  441 2018 1998 6125 Rattlesnake Hammock Road
Naples, FL  — 1,672  23,126  — 1,672  23,126  1,068  2018 1993 1000 Lely Palms Drive
Naples, FL  — 1,854  12,402  — 1,854  12,402  463 2018 1987 3601 Lakewood Boulevard
Nashville, TN  — 4,910  29,590  — 4,910  29,590  9,113 2008 2007 15 Burton Hills Boulevard
Naugatuck, CT  — 1,200  15,826  199 1,200  16,025  3,931  2011 1980 4 Hazel Avenue
Needham, MA  — 1,610  12,667  — 1,610  12,667  5,644  2002 1994 100 West St.
New Lenox, IL  — 1,225  21,575  — 1,225  21,575  429 2019 2007 1023 South Cedar Rd
New Moston, UK  — 1,480  4,378  443 1,592  4,709  833 2013 2010 90a Broadway
Newark, DE  — 560 21,220  2,422  560 23,642  8,621  2004 1998 200 E. Village Rd.
Newcastle Under L yme,
UK  — 1,110 5,655  512 1,194  6,083  1,028  2013 2010 Hempstalls Lane
Newcastle-under -Lyme,
UK  — 1,125  5,537  503 1,210  5,955  817 2014 1999 Silverdale Road
Newport News, VA  — 839 6,077  — 839 6,077  739 2018 1998 12997 Nettles Dr
Norman, OK  — 55 1,484  — 55 1,484  969 1995 1995 1701 Alameda Dr .
Norman, OK  — 1,480  33,330  — 1,480  33,330  6,428  2012 1985 800 Canadian Trails Drive
North Augusta, SC  — 332 2,558  — 332 2,558  1,407  1999 1998 105 North Hills Dr .
Northampton, UK  — 5,182  17,348  1,702  5,573  18,659  3,277  2013 2011 Cliftonville Road
Northampton, UK  — 2,013  6,257  626 2,166  6,730  869 2014 2014 Cliftonville Road
Northbrook, IL  — 1,298  13,341  — 1,298  13,341  510 2018 1999 3240 Milwaukee Avenue
Nuneaton, UK  — 3,325  8,983  929 3,576  9,661  1,634  2013 2011 132 Coventry Road
Nuthall, UK  — 1,628  6,263  597 1,752  6,736  856 2014 2014 172A  Nottingham Road
Nuthall, UK  — 2,498  10,436  977 2,687  11,224  1,917  2013 2011 172 Nottingham Road
Oak Lawn, IL  — 2,418  5,428  — 2,418  5,428  206 2018 1977 9401 South Kostner Avenue
Oak Lawn, IL  — 3,876  7,988  — 3,876  7,988  315 2018 1960 6300 W 95th Street
Oakland, CA  — 4,760  16,143  109 4,760  16,252  2,372  2014 2002 468 Perkins Street
Ocala, FL  — 1,340  10,564  102 1,340  10,666  3,067  2008 2009 2650 SE 18TH Avenue
Oklahoma City , OK  — 590 7,513  — 590 7,513  2,382  2007 2008 13200 S. May Ave
Oklahoma City , OK  — 760 7,017  — 760 7,017  2,197  2007 2009 11320 N. Council Road
Oklahoma City , OK  — 1,590  16,272  — 1,590  16,272  44 2014 2016 2800 SW  131st Street
Olathe, KS  — 1,930  19,765  553 1,930  20,318  2,378  2016 2015 21250 W 151 Street
Omaha, NE  — 370 10,230  — 370 10,230  2,643  2010 1998 11909 Miracle Hills Dr .
Omaha, NE  — 380 8,769  — 380 8,769  2,392  2010 1999 5728 South 108th St.
Ona, WV  — 950 15,998  390 950 16,388  1,820  2015 2007 100 Weatherholt Drive
Oneonta, NY  — 80 5,020  — 80 5,020  1,570  2007 1996 1846 County Highway 48
Orange Park, FL  — 2,201  4,018  — 2,201  4,018  212 2018 1990 570 Wells Road
Orem, UT  — 2,150  24,107  — 2,150  24,107  2,642  2015 2014 250 East Center Street
(Dollars in thousands)    Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description  Encumbrances  Land  Building &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built Address
Triple-net:               
Osage City , KS  — 50 1,700  142 50 1,842  247 2015  1996 1403 Laing St
Osawatomie, KS  — 130 2,970  136 130 3,106  380 2015  2003 1520 Parker Ave
Ottawa, KS  — 160 6,590  44 160 6,634  742 2015  2007 2250 S Elm St
Overland Park, KS  — 4,500  29,105  38,441  8,230  63,816  17,220 2010  1988 6101 W 119th St
Overland Park, KS  — 410 2,840  92 410 2,932  374 2015  2004 14430 Metcalf Ave
Overland Park, KS  — 1,300  25,31 1 677 1,300  25,988  2,995 2016  2015 7600 Antioch Road
Owasso, OK  — 215 1,380  — 215 1,380  834 1996  1996 12807 E. 86th Place N.
Owensboro, KY  — 225 13,275  — 225 13,275  5,428 2005  1964 1205 Leitchfield Rd.
Owenton, KY  — 100 2,400  — 100 2,400  1,157 2005  1979 905 Hwy . 127 N.
Palestine, TX  — 180 4,320  1,300  180 5,620  1,949 2006  2005 1625 W. Spring St.
Palm Beach Gardens,
FL  — 2,082  6,624  — 2,082  6,624  289 2018  1991 11375 Prosperity Farms Road
Palm Coast, FL  — 870 10,957  98 870 11,055  3,040 2008  2010 50 Town Ct.
Palm Desert, CA  — 6,195  8,922  — 6,195  8,922  353 2018  1989 74350 Country Club Drive
Palm Harbor , FL  — 1,306  13,81 1 — 1,306  13,81 1 567 2018  1997 2895 Tampa Road
Palm Harbor , FL  — 3,281  22,457  — 3,281  22,457  904 2018  1990 2851 Tampa Road
Palos Heights, IL  — 1,225  12,457  — 1,225  12,457  468 2018  1999 7880 West College Drive
Palos Heights, IL  — 3,431  28,812  — 3,431  28,812  1,046 2018  1987 7850 West College Drive
Palos Heights, IL  — 2,590  7,647  — 2,590  7,647  288 2018  1996 11860 Southwest Hwy
Panama City Beach, FL  — 900 6,402  734 900 7,136  1,340 2011 2005 6012 Magnolia Beach Road
Paola, KS  — 190 5,610  59 190 5,669  646 2015  2000 601 N. East Street
Paris, TX  — 490 5,452  — 490 5,452  4,784 2005  2006 750 N Collegiate Dr
Parma, OH  — 960 12,722  — 960 12,722  512 2018  1998 9205 Sprague Road
Parma, OH  — 1,833  10,318  — 1,833  10,318  468 2018  2006 9055 West Sprague Road
Paulsboro, NJ  — 3,264  8,026  — 3,264  8,026  327 2018  1987 550 Jessup Road
Perrysbur g, OH  — 1,456  5,433  — 1,456  5,433  224 2018  1973 10540 Fremont Pike
Perrysbur g, OH  — 1,213  7,110 — 1,213  7,110 271 2018  1978 10542 Fremont Pike
Philadelphia, P A  — 2,930  10,433  3,536  2,930  13,969  3,647 2011 1952 1526 Lombard Street
Phillipsbur g, NJ  — 800 21,175  238 800 21,413  5,254 2011 1992 290 Red School Lane
Phillipsbur g, NJ  — 300 8,114 101 300 8,215  2,015 2011 1905 843 Wilbur Avenue
Pikesville, MD  — — 2,488  — — 2,488  89 2018  1998 8911 Reisterstown Road
Pikesville, MD  — 4,247  8,383  — 4,247  8,383  357 2018  1996 8909 Reisterstown Road
Pinehurst, NC  — 290 2,690  517 290 3,207  1,463 2003  1998 17 Regional Dr .
Piqua, OH  — 204 1,885  — 204 1,885  1,069 1997  1997 1744 W. High St.
Piscataway , NJ  — 3,100  33,501  — 3,100  33,501  2,369 2013  2017 10 Sterling Drive
Pittsbur gh, P A  — 603 11,357  — 603 11,357  455 2018  1998 1125 Perry Highway
Pittsbur gh, P A  — 1,005  15,164  — 1,005  15,164  584 2018  1997 505 Weyman Road
Pittsbur gh, P A  — 1,140  3,166  — 1,140  3,166  123 2018  1962 550 South Negley Avenue
Pittsbur gh, P A  — 994 3,790  — 994 3,790  210 2018  1986 2170 Rhine Street
Pittsbur gh, P A  — 761 4,214  — 761 4,214  157 2018  1965 5609 Fifth Avenue
Pittsbur gh, P A  — 1,480  9,715  — 1,480  9,715  423 2018  1986 1105 Perry Highway
Pittsbur gh, P A  — 1,139  5,846  — 1,139  5,846  249 2018  1986 1848 Greentree Road
Pittsbur gh, P A  — 1,750  8,572  6,320  1,750  14,892  3,701 2005  1998 100 Knoedler Rd.
Plainview , NY  — 3,990  11,969  1,713  3,990  13,682  3,235 2011 1963 150 Sunnyside Blvd
Plano, TX  — 1,840  20,152  560 1,840  20,712  2,190 2016  2016 3325 W Plano Parkway
Plattsmouth, NE  — 250 5,650  — 250 5,650  1,535 2010  1999 1913 E. Highway 34
(Dollars in thousands)   Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description Encumbrances  Land  Building &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Triple-net:                
Poole, UK — 3,416  17,171  — 3,416  17,171  50 2019  2019  Kingsmill Road
Potomac, MD — 1,448  14,626  — 1,448  14,626  553 2018  1994  10718 Potomac Tennis Lane
Potomac, MD — 4,119 14,921  — 4,119 14,921  583 2018  1988  10714 Potomac Tennis Lane
Pottstown, P A — 984 4,565  — 984 4,565  191 2018  1907  724 North Charlotte Street
Pottsville, P A — 171 3,560  — 171 3,560  140 2018  1976  420 Pulaski Drive
Prior Lake, MN 13,567  1,870  29,849  300 1,870  30,149  3,208 2015  2003  4685 Park Nicollet Avenue
Raleigh, NC — 7,598  88,870  493 7,598  89,363  6,542 2008  2017  4030 Cardinal at North Hills St
Raleigh, NC — 3,530  59,589  — 3,530  59,589  11,396 2012  2002  5301 Creedmoor Road
Raleigh, NC — 2,580  16,837  — 2,580  16,837  3,433 2012  1988  7900 Creedmoor Road
Reading, P A — 980 19,906  140 980 20,046  4,850 2011 1994  5501 Perkiomen Ave
Red Bank, NJ — 1,050  21,275  1,158  1,050  22,433  4,785 2011 1997  One Hartford Dr .
Redondo Beach, CA — — 9,557  653 — 10,210  6,913 2011 1957  514 North Prospect Ave
Reidsville, NC — 170 3,830  907 170 4,737  2,155 2002  1998  2931 Vance St.
Richardson, TX — 1,468  12,979  — 1,468  12,979  511 2018  1999  410 Buckingham Road
Richmond, IN — 700 14,222  393 700 14,615  1,699 2016  2015  400 Industries Road
Richmond, VA — 3,261  17,980  — 3,261  17,980  672 2018  1990  1719 Bellevue Avenue
Richmond, VA — 1,046  8,235  — 1,046  8,235  330 2018  1966  2125 Hilliard Road
Roanoke, VA — 748 4,483  — 748 4,483  715 2018  1997  4355 Pheasant Ridge Rd
Rockville Centre, NY — 4,290  20,310  1,379  4,290  21,689  4,889 2011 2002  260 Maple Ave
Rockwall, TX — 2,220  17,650  69 2,220  17,719  2,049 2012  2014  720 E Ralph Hall Parkway
Romeoville, IL — 1,895  — — 1,895  — — 2006  1900  Grand Haven Circle
Roseville, MN — 2,140  24,679  100 2,140  24,779  2,677 2015  1989  2750 North Victoria Street
Rugeley , UK — 1,900  10,262  918 2,043  11,037  1,976 2013  2010  Horse Fair
Ruston, LA — 710 9,790  — 710 9,790  2,424 2011 1988  1401 Ezelle St
S Holland, IL — 1,423  8,910  — 1,423  8,910  359 2018  1997  2045 East 170th Street
Salem, OR — 449 5,171  1 449 5,172  2,828 1999  1998  1355 Boone Rd. S.E.
Salisbury , NC — 370 5,697  196 370 5,893  2,561 2003  1997  2201 Statesville Blvd.
San Angelo, TX — 260 8,800  425 260 9,225  3,572 2004  1997  2695 Valleyview Blvd.
San Angelo, TX — 1,050  24,689  1,221  1,050  25,910  3,682 2014  1999  6101 Grand Court Road
San Antonio, TX — 1,499  12,662  — 1,499  12,662  493 2018  2000  15290 Huebner Road
San Antonio, TX — — 17,303  — — 17,303  8,455 2007  2007  8902 Floyd Curl Dr .
San Diego, CA — — 22,003  1,845  — 23,848  6,664 2008  1992  555 Washington St.
San Juan Capistrano,
CA — 1,390  6,942  1,434  1,390  8,376  3,500 2000  2001  3031 1 Camino Capistrano
Sand Springs, OK — 910 19,654  — 910 19,654  3,861 2012  2002  4402 South 129th Avenue West
Sarasota, FL — 475 3,175  — 475 3,175  1,991 1996  1995  8450 McIntosh Rd.
Sarasota, FL — 4,101  11,208  — 4,101  11,208  701 2018  1993  5401 Sawyer Road
Sarasota, FL — 1,370  4,084  — 1,370  4,084  164 2018  1968  3250 12th Street
Sarasota, FL — 2,792  11,177  — 2,792  11,177  434 2018  1993  5511 Swift Road
Sarasota, FL — 3,360  19,140  — 3,360  19,140  4,182 2011 2006  6150 Edgelake Drive
Sarasota, FL — 443 8,895  — 443 8,895  382 2018  1998  5509 Swift Road
Scranton, P A — 440 17,609  — 440 17,609  2,530 2014  2005  2741 Blvd. Ave
Scranton, P A — 320 12,144  1 320 12,145  1,741 2014  2013  2751 Boulevard Ave
Seminole, FL — 1,165  8,977  — 1,165  8,977  373 2018  1998  9300 Antilles Drive
Seven Fields, P A — 484 4,663  59 484 4,722  2,585 1999  1999  500 Seven Fields Blvd.
Sewell, NJ — 3,127  14,095  — 3,127  14,095  624 2018  2010  378 Fries Mill Road
(Dollars in thousands)    Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description  Encumbrances  LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition Land  Building &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation (1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:            
Shawnee, OK  — 80 1,400 — 80 1,400  870 1996 1995 3947 Kickapoo
Shelbyville, KY  — 630 3,870 630 630 4,500  1,684  2005 1965 1871 Midland Trail
Sherman, TX  — 700 5,221 — 700 5,221  1,838  2005 2006 1011 E. Pecan Grove Rd.
Silver Spring, MD  — 1,469 10,395 — 1,469  10,395  405 2018 1995 2505 Musgrove Road
Silver Spring, MD  — 4,678 11,683 — 4,678  11,683  485 2018 1990 2501 Musgrove Road
Silvis, IL  — 880 16,420 139 880 16,559  4,135  2010 2005 1900 10th St.
Sinking Spring, P A  — 1,393 19,848 — 1,393  19,848  764 2018 1982 3000 Windmill Road
Sittingbourne, UK  — 1,357 6,539 597 1,460  7,033  926 2014 1997 200 London Road
Smithfield, NC  — 290 5,680 455 290 6,135  2,497  2003 1998 830 Berkshire Rd.
Smithfield, NC  — 360 8,216 — 360 8,216  1,177  2014 1999 250 Highway 210 West
South Bend, IN  — 670 17,770 — 670 17,770  2,652  2014 2014 52565 State Road 933
South Point, OH  — 1,135 9,390 — 1,135  9,390  362 2018 1984 7743 County Road 1
Southampton, UK  — 1,519 16,041 710 1,581  16,689  1,013  2017 2013 Botley Road, Park Gate
Southbury , CT  — 1,860 23,613 958 1,860  24,571  5,579  2011 2001 655 Main St
Spokane, WA  — 2,649 11,703 — 2,649  11,703  456 2018 1985 6025 North Assembly Street
Springfield, IL  — 990 13,378 1,085 990 14,463  2,121  2014 2013 3089 Old Jacksonville Road
St. Louis, MO  — 1,890 12,390 837 1,890  13,227  3,028  2010 1963 6543 Chippewa St
St. Paul, MN  — 2,100 33,019 100 2,100  33,119 3,546  2015 1996 750 Mississippi River
Stafford, UK  — 2,009 8,238 414 2,090  8,571  750 2014 2016 Stone Road
Stamford, UK  — 1,820 3,238 382 1,957  3,483  489 2014 1998 Priory Road
Statesville, NC  — 150 1,447 338 150 1,785  788 2003 1990 2441 E. Broad St.
Statesville, NC  — 310 6,183 61 310 6,244  2,662  2003 1996 2806 Peachtree Place
Statesville, NC  — 140 3,627 9 140 3,636  1,589  2003 1999 2814 Peachtree Rd.
Staunton, VA  — 899 6,391 — 899 6,391  792 2018 1999 1410 N Augusta St
Sterling Heights, MI  — 790 10,787 — 790 10,787  423 2018 1996 11095 East Fourteen Mile Road
Sterling Heights, MI  — 1,583 15,639 — 1,583  15,639  622 2018 2013 38200 Schoenherr Road
Stillwater , OK  — 80 1,400 — 80 1,400  872 1995 1995 1616 McElroy Rd.
Stratford-upon-A von,
UK  — 790 14,508 1,155 849 15,604  1,901  2015 2012 Scholars Lane
Stroudsbur g, PA  — 340 16,313 — 340 16,313  2,619  2014 2011 370 Whitestone Corner Road
Summit, NJ  — 3,080 14,152 — 3,080  14,152  3,422  2011 2001 41 Springfield Avenue
Sunbury , PA  — 695 7,246 — 695 7,246  273 2018 1981 800 Court Street Circle
Sunninghill, UK  — 11,632 42,233 2,174 12,101  43,938  2,925  2014 2017 Bagshot Road
Sunnyvale, CA  — 4,946 22,131 — 4,946  22,131  829 2018 1990 1150 Tilton Drive
Superior , WI  — 1,020 13,735 6,159 1,020  19,894  3,457  2009 2010 1915 North 34th Street
Tacoma, WA  — 2,522 8,576 — 2,522  8,576  328 2018 1984 5601 South Orchard Southtreet
Tampa, FL  — 1,315 6,913 — 1,315  6,913  313 2018 1999 14950 Casey Road
Terre Haute, IN  — 1,370 18,016 — 1,370  18,016  2,463  2015 2015 395 8th Avenue
Texarkana, TX  — 192 1,403 — 192 1,403  847 1996 1996 4204 Moores Lane
The Villages, FL  — 1,035 7,446 — 1,035  7,446  1,327  2013 2014 2450 Parr Drive
Thomasville, GA  — 530 12,520 1,347 530 13,867  2,429  2011 2006 423 Covington Avenue
Three Rivers, MI  — 1,255 2,761 — 1,255  2,761  142 2018 1976 517 South Erie Southtreet
Tomball, TX  — 1,050 13,300 840 1,050  14,140  3,171  2011 2001 1221 Graham Dr
Toms River , NJ  — 3,466 23,31 1 — 3,466  23,31 1 832 2019 2006 1657 Silverton Rd
Tonganoxie, KS  — 310 3,690 76 310 3,766  473 2015 2009 120 W 8th St
Topeka, KS  — 260 12,712 — 260 12,712  2,579  2012 2011 1931 Southwest Arvonia Place
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description Encumbrances Land  Building &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation (1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:             
Towson, MD — 1,715  13,115 — 1,715 13,115 510 2018 2000 8101 Bellona Avenue
Towson, MD — 3,100  6,468  — 3,100 6,468 240 2018 1960 509 East Joppa Road
Towson, MD — 4,527  3,128  — 4,527 3,128 147 2018 1970 7001 North Charles Street
Troy, MI — 1,381  24,452  — 1,381 24,452 909 2018 2006 925 West South Boulevard
Troy, OH — 200 2,000  4,254  200 6,254 2,345  1997 1997 81 S. Stanfield Rd.
Trumbull, CT — 4,440  43,384  — 4,440 43,384 10,012  2011 2001 6949 Main Street
Tulsa, OK — 1,390  7,110 1,102  1,390 8,212 2,264  2010 1998 7220 S. Yale Ave.
Tulsa, OK — 1,320  10,087  — 1,320 10,087 2,121  2011 2012 7902 South Mingo Road East
Tulsa, OK — 1,100  27,007  2,233  1,100 29,240 2,334  2015 2017 18001 East 51st Street
Tulsa, OK 13,000 1,752  28,421  — 1,752 28,421 2,023  2017 2014 701 W 71st Street South
Tulsa, OK — 890 9,410  — 890 9,410 572 2017 2009 7210 South Yale Avenue
Tustin, CA — 840 15,299  537 840 15,836 3,986  2011 1965 240 East 3rd St
Twinsbur g, OH — 1,446  5,921  — 1,446 5,921 255 2018 2014 8551 Darrow Road
Tyler, TX — 650 5,268  — 650 5,268 1,794  2006 2007 5550 Old Jacksonville Hwy .
Union, SC — 1,932  2,374  — 1,932 2,374 142 2018 1981 709 Rice Avenue
Valparaiso, IN — 112 2,558  — 112 2,558 1,266  2001 1998 2601 Valparaiso St.
Valparaiso, IN — 108 2,962  — 108 2,962 1,449  2001 1999 2501 Valparaiso St.
Vancouver , WA — 2,503  28,401  — 2,503 28,401 1,047  2018 2011 2811 N.E. 139th Street
Venice, FL — 1,150  10,674  108 1,150 10,782 3,019  2008 2009 1600 Center Rd.
Venice, FL — 2,246  10,097  — 2,246 10,097 418 2018 1997 1450 East Venice Avenue
Vero Beach, FL — 263 3,187  — 263 3,187 1,550  2001 1999 420 4th Ct.
Vero Beach, FL — 297 3,263  — 297 3,263 1,596  2001 1996 410 4th Ct.
Virginia Beach, VA — 1,540  22,593  — 1,540 22,593 3,282  2014 1993 5520 Indian River Rd
Voorhees, NJ — 1,800  37,299  671 1,800 37,970 9,153  2011 1965 2601 Evesham Road
Voorhees, NJ — 3,100  25,950  26 3,100 25,976 5,244  2011 2013 113 South Route 73
Voorhees, NJ — 2,193  6,992  — 2,193 6,992 301 2018 2006 1086 Dumont Circle
W Palm Beach, FL — 1,175  8,297  — 1,175 8,297 350 2018 1996 2330 Village Boulevard
W Palm Beach, FL — 1,921  5,733  — 1,921 5,733 234 2018 1996 2300 Village Boulevard
Wabash, IN — 670 14,588  1 670 14,589 2,269  2014 2013 20 John Kissinger Drive
Waconia, MN — 890 14,726  4,495  890 19,221 4,086  2011 2005 500 Cherry Street
Wake Forest, NC — 200 3,003  2,039  200 5,042 2,420  1998 1999 611 S. Brooks St.
Wallingford, P A — 1,356  6,489  — 1,356 6,489 285 2018 1930 115 South Providence Road
Walnut Creek, CA — 4,358  18,413  — 4,358 18,413 708 2018 1997 1975 Tice Valley Boulevard
Walnut Creek, CA — 5,394  39,096  — 5,394 39,096 1,429  2018 1990 1226 Rossmoor Parkway
Walsall, UK — 1,184  8,562  737 1,274 9,209 1,189  2015 2015 Little Aston Road
Wamego, KS — 40 2,510  57 40 2,567 298 2015 1996 1607 4th St
Wareham, MA — 875 10,313  1,701  875 12,014 5,798  2002 1989 50 Indian Neck Rd.
Warren, NJ — 2,000  30,810  1,337  2,000 32,147 6,904  2011 1999 274 King Geor ge Rd
Waterloo, IA — 605 3,031  — 605 3,031 129 2018 1964 201 West Ridgeway Avenue
Waxahachie, TX — 650 5,763  — 650 5,763 1,838  2007 2008 1329 Brown St.
Wayne, NJ — 1,427  15,679  — 1,427 15,679 766 2018 1998 800 Hambur g Turnpike
Weatherford, TX — 660 5,261  — 660 5,261 1,805  2006 2007 1818 Martin Drive
Wellingborough, UK — 1,480  5,724  544 1,592 6,156 890 2015 2015 159 Northampton
West Bend, WI — 620 17,790  38 620 17,828 3,783  2010 2011 2130 Continental Dr
West Des Moines, IA — 828 5,104  — 828 5,104 219 2018 2006 5010 Grand Ridge Drive
(Dollars in thousands)   Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period       
Description Encumbrances  Land  Building &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition Land  Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation (1) Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Triple-net:               
West Milford, NJ — 1,960  24,614  — 1,960  24,614 672 2019  2000  197 Cahill Cross Road
West Orange, NJ — 1,347  19,395  — 1,347  19,395 888 2018  1998  510 Prospect Avenue
West Reading, P A — 890 12,122  — 890 12,122 441 2018  1975  425 Buttonwood Street
Westerville, OH — 740 8,287  4,076 740 12,363 10,273  1998  2001  690 Cooper Rd.
Westerville, OH — 1,420  5,373  — 1,420  5,373 218 2018  1982  1060 Eastwind Drive
Westerville, OH — 1,582  10,282  — 1,582  10,282 424 2018  1980  215 Huber Village Boulevard
Westfield, IN — 890 15,964  1 890 15,965 2,462  2014  2013  937 E. 186th Street
Westlake, OH — 855 11,966  — 855 11,966 474 2018  1997  28400 Center Ridge Road
Weston Super Mare,
UK — 2,517  7,054  723 2,707  7,587 1,290  2013  2011 141b Milton Road
Wheaton, MD — 3,864  3,790  — 3,864  3,790 159 2018  1961  11901 Geor gia Avenue
Whippany , NJ — 1,571  14,982  — 1,571  14,982 597 2018  2000  18 Eden Lane
Wichita, KS — 1,400  11,000  — 1,400  11,000 5,288  2006  1997  505 North Maize Road
Wichita, KS — 860 8,873  — 860 8,873 2,058  2011 2012  10604 E 13th Street North
Wichita, KS 12,545  630 19,747  — 630 19,747 3,840  2012  2009  2050 North Webb Road
Wichita, KS — 260 2,240  129 260 2,369 277 2015  1992  900 N Bayshore Dr
Wichita, KS — 900 10,134  — 900 10,134 2,218  2011 2012  10600 E 13th Street North
Wilkes-Barre, P A — 753 3,457  — 753 3,457 160 2018  1970  1548 Sans Souci Parkway
Williamsbur g, VA — 1,187  5,728  — 1,187  5,728 722 2018  2000  1811 Jamestown Rd
Williamsport, P A — 919 6,926  — 919 6,926 276 2018  1976  300 Leader Drive
Williamsport, P A — 780 1,899  — 780 1,899 100 2018  1972  101 Leader Drive
Williamstown, KY — 70 6,430  — 70 6,430 2,649  2005  1987  201 Kimberly Lane
Willoughby , OH — 1,774  8,655  — 1,774  8,655 349 2018  1974  37603 Euclid Avenue
Wilmington, DE — 800 9,494  114 800 9,608 2,481  2011 1970  810 S Broom Street
Wilmington, DE — 1,376  13,454  — 1,376  13,454 525 2018  1998  700 1/2 Foulk Road
Wilmington, DE — 2,843  36,959  — 2,843  36,959 1,388  2018  1988  5651 Limestone Road
Wilmington, DE — 2,266  9,503  — 2,266  9,503 381 2018  1984  700 Foulk Road
Wilmington, NC — 210 2,991  — 210 2,991 1,630  1999  1999  3501 Converse Dr .
Wilmington, NC — 400 15,355  — 400 15,355 2,307  2014  2012  3828 Independence Blvd
Windsor , VA — 1,148  6,514  — 1,148  6,514 828 2018  1999  23352 Courthouse Hwy
Winston-Salem, NC — 360 2,514  488 360 3,002 1,337  2003  1996  2980 Reynolda Rd.
Winter Garden, FL — 1,110 7,937  — 1,110 7,937 1,618  2012  2013  720 Roper Road
Winter Springs, FL — 1,152  14,826  — 1,152  14,826 573 2018  1999  1057 Willa Springs Drive
Witherwack, UK — 944 6,915  593 1,015  7,437 1,265  2013  2009  Whitchurch Road
Wolverhampton, UK — 1,573  6,678  624 1,692  7,183 1,232  2013  2011 378 Prestonwood Road
Woodbury , MN — 1,317  20,935  298 1,317  21,233 1,665  2017  2015  2195 Century Avenue South
Woodstock, VA — 594 5,108  — 594 5,108 594 2018  2001  803 S Main St
Worcester , MA — 3,500  54,099  — 3,500  54,099 14,483  2007  2009  101 Barry Road
Worcester , MA — 2,300  9,060  6,000 2,300  15,060 4,863  2008  1993  378 Plantation St.
Yardley , PA — 773 14,918  — 773 14,918 609 2018  1995  493 Stony Hill Road
Yardley , PA — 1,561  9,442  — 1,561  9,442 459 2018  1990  1480 Oxford Valley Road
Yeadon, P A — 1,075  10,694  — 1,075  10,694 401 2018  1963  14 Lincoln Avenue
York, P A — 976 9,357  — 976 9,357 372 2018  1972  200 Pauline Drive
York, P A — 1,050  4,212  — 1,050  4,212 198 2018  1983  2400 Kingston Court
York, P A — 1,121  7,586  — 1,121  7,586 322 2018  1979  1770 Barley Road
York, UK — 2,961  8,266  848 3,185  8,890 1,225  2014  2006  Rosetta Way, Boroughbridge Road
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description Encumbrances LandBuilding &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation (1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built Address
Triple-net:             
Youngsville, NC — 380 10,686  — 380 10,686 1,563 2014  2013 100 Sunset Drive
Zephyrhills, FL — 2,131 6,671  — 2,131  6,671 297 2018  1987 38220 Henry Drive
Zionsville, IN — 1,610 22,400  1,683  1,609  24,084 5,782 2010  2009 11755 N Michigan Rd
Triple-net Total $ 306,038 $1,036,151 $7,894,992 $351,136 $1,057,708 $8,224,571 $ 1,272,903    
105
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2019  
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description Encumbrances Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition  LandBuilding &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Outpatient Medical:            
Addison, IL $ 5,762 $ 102 $ 18,842 $ — $ 102 $ 18,842  $ 575 2018 2012 303 West Lake Street
Agawam, MA — 1,072  5,164 — 1,072 5,164  — 2019 2005 230-232 Main Street
Allen, TX — 726 14,196 1,302  726 15,498  5,329 2012 2006 1105 N Central Expressway
Alpharetta, GA — 476 14,694 — 476 14,694  5,694 2011 2003 11975 Morris Road
Alpharetta, GA — 1,862  — — 1,862 — — 2011 1900 940 North Point Parkway
Alpharetta, GA — 548 17,103 611 548 17,714  6,751 2011 2007 3300 Old Milton Parkway
Alpharetta, GA — 773 18,902 115 773 19,017  7,097 2011 1993 3400-A  Old Milton Parkway
Alpharetta, GA — 1,769  36,152 762 1,769 36,914  14,961 2011 1999 3400-C Old Milton Parkway
Anderson, IN — 584 21,077 — 584 21,077  2,042 2017 2016 3125 S. Scatterfield Rd.
Appleton, WI 7,045 1,881  8,866 — 1,881 8,866  — 2019 2004 5320 W Michael Drive
Appleton, WI 12,343 3,782  20,440 — 3,782 20,440  — 2019 2005 2323 N Casaloma Drive
Arcadia, CA — 5,408  23,219 4,825  5,618 27,834  11,877 2006 1984 301 W. Huntington Drive
Arlington, TX — 82 18,243 413 82 18,656  4,290 2012 2012 902 W. Randol Mill Road
Atlanta, GA — 4,931  18,720 7,281  5,387 25,545  12,588 2006 1991 755 Mt. Vernon Hwy .
Atlanta, GA — — 43,425 2,062  — 45,487  14,031 2012 2006 5670 Peachtree-Dunwoody Road
Atlanta, GA — 1,947  24,248 2,258  2,172 26,281  8,775 2012 1984 975 Johnson Ferry Road
Austin, TX — 1,066  10,112 — 1,066 10,112 926 2017 2017 5301-B Davis Lane
Austin, TX — 1,688  6,784 — 1,688 6,784  279 2019 2015 5301-A  Davis Lane
Baltimore, MD — 4,490  31,222 — 4,490 31,222  — 2019 2014 1420 Key Highway
Bardstown, KY — 274 7,537 — 274 7,537  1,765 2010 2006 4359 New Shepherdsville Rd
Bartlett, TN — 187 15,015 2,346  187 17,361  7,436 2007 2004 2996 Kate Bond Rd.
Bel Air, MD — — 24,769 56 — 24,825  2,385 2014 2016 12 Medstar Boulevard
Bellaire, TX — 5,482  32,478 — 5,482 32,478  790 2019 2007 5420 WEST  LOOP  SOUTH
Bellaire, TX — 5,572  72,478 — 5,572 72,478  1,172 2019 2007 5410 - 5420 WEST  LOOP  SOUTH
Bellevue, NE — — 16,680 2 — 16,682  5,909 2010 2010 2510 Bellevue Medical Center Drive
Bend, OR — 16,516  30,338 — 16,516 30,338  830 2019 20011501 Northeast Medical Center
Drive
Berkeley Heights, NJ — 49,555  92,806 — 49,555 92,806  1,117 2019 1978 1 Diamond Hill Road
Bettendorf, IA — — 7,110 73 — 7,183  928 2013 2014 2140 53rd Avenue
Beverly Hills, CA — 20,766  40,730 3,591  20,766 44,321  7,885 2015 1946 9675 Brighton Way
Beverly Hills, CA — 19,863  31,690 1,683  19,863 33,373  5,461 2015 1946 416 North Bedford
Beverly Hills, CA 33,729 32,603  28,639 1,149  32,603 29,788  6,111 2015 1950 435 North Bedford
Beverly Hills, CA — 18,863  1,192 420 18,885 1,590  793 2015 1955 415 North Bedford
Beverly Hills, CA 78,271 52,772  87,366 897 52,772 88,263  13,738 2015 1989 436 North Bedford
Birmingham, AL — 3,940  12,315 — 3,940 12,315  286 2019 2015 4600 Highway 280
Birmingham, AL 8,477 896 13,755 6 896 13,761  480 2018 1985 3485 Independence Drive
Boca Raton, FL — 31 12,312 444 251 12,536  4,018 2012 1993 9960 S. Central Park Boulevard
Boca Raton, FL — 109 34,002 4,125  214 38,022  15,196 2006 1995 9970 S. Central Park Blvd.
(Dollars in thousands)   
    Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period       
Description Encumbrances Land Building &
Improvements Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent Land Building &
Improvements Accumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
Acquired Year
Built Address
to
Acquisition
Outpatient Medical:                 
Boerne, TX  — 50 12,951  915 86 13,830  4,004  2011 2007  134 Menger Springs Road
Boynton Beach, FL  — 13,324  40,369  3,178  14,049  42,822  13,758  2013  1995  10301 Hagen Ranch Road
Boynton Beach, FL  — 214 5,611 7,597  320 13,102  5,995  2007  1996  10075 Jog Rd.
Boynton Beach, FL  — 2,048  7,692  1,233  2,185  8,788  4,106  2006  1995  8188 Jog Rd.
Boynton Beach, FL  — 2,048  7,403  1,705  2,185  8,971  4,266  2006  1997  8200 Jog Road
Bradenton, FL  — 1,184  9,799  417 1,184  10,216  2,337  2014  1975  315 75th Street West
Bradenton, FL  — 1,035  4,298  17 1,035  4,315  1,085  2014  2006  7005 Cortez Road West
Brandon, FL  — 1,437  7,006  — 1,437  7,006  425 2018  2016  2020 Town Center Boulevard
Bridgeton, MO  — 1,701  6,228  245 1,501  6,673  1,009  2017  2008  3440 De Paul Ln.
Bridgeton, MO  — 450 21,221  1,248  450 22,469  7,743  2010  2006  12266 DePaul Dr
Buckhurst Hill, UK  — 11,989  50,907  2,540  12,473  52,963  6,406  2015  2013  High Road
Burleson, TX  — 10 12,61 1 701 10 13,312  4,701  2011 2007  12001 South Freeway
Burnsville, MN  — — 31,596  2,182  — 33,778  9,564  2013  2014  14101 Fairview Dr
Cary , NC  — 2,816  11,146  — 2,816  11,146  460 2019  2007  540 Waverly Place
Castle Rock, CO  — 80 13,004  536 79 13,541  3,543  2014  2013  2352 Meadows Boulevard
Castle Rock, CO  — — 11,795  195 — 11,990  747 2016  2017  Meadows Boulevard
Cedar Park, TX  — 132 23,753  4,448  132 28,201  3,471  2017  2014  1401 Medical Parkway , Building 2
Chapel Hill, NC  — 488 2,390  — 488 2,390  61 2019  2010  100 Perkins Drive
Chapel Hill, NC  5,161  1,970  8,874  50 1,970  8,924  406 2018  2007  6011 Farrington Road
Chapel Hill, NC  5,161  1,970  8,925  5 1,970  8,930  462 2018  2007  6013 Farrington Road
Chapel Hill, NC  14,669  5,681  25,035  15 5,681  25,050  1,193  2018  2006  2226 North Carolina Highway 54
Charleston, SC  — 2,815  25,648  — 2,815  25,648  5,380  2014  2009  325 Folly Road
Charlotte, NC  — 10 24,796  — 10 24,796  1,003  2019  1971  1900 Randolph Road
Charlotte, NC  — 30 61,799  — 30 61,799  2,329  2019  1994  1918 Randolph Road
Charlotte, NC  — 40 40,606  — 40 40,606  1,482  2019  1989  1718 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, NC  — 1,746  8,645  — 1,746  8,645  564 2019  1998  309 South Sharon Amity Road
Charlotte, NC  — 1,158  8,802  — 1,158  8,802  509 2019  1998  5039 Airport Center Parkway
Chicopee, MA  — 6,078  15,842  — 6,078  15,842  — 2019  2005  444 Montgomery Street
Chula Vista, CA  — 1,045  22,252  — 1,045  22,252  1,075  2019  1973  480 4th Avenue
Chula Vista, CA  — 826 5,557  — 826 5,557  280 2019  1985  450 4th Avenue
Chula Vista, CA  — 1,114 15,459  — 1,114 15,459  357 2019  2008  971 Lane Ave
Chula Vista, CA  — 1,075  7,165  — 1,075  7,165  167 2019  2006  959 Lane Ave
Cincinnati, OH  — — 17,880  288 2 18,166  4,254  2012  2013  3301 Mercy Health Boulevard
Cincinnati, OH  — 537 10,122  — 537 10,122  548 2019  2001  4850 Red Bank Expressway
Claremont, CA  — 3,950  20,168  — 3,950  20,168  448 2019  2008  1601 Monte Vista Avenue
Clarkson Valley , MO  — — 35,592  — — 35,592  14,085  2009  2010  15945 Clayton Rd
Clear Lake, TX  — — 13,882  20 2,319  11,583  1,544  2013  2014  1010 South Ponds Drive
Clyde, NC  — 1,433  22,062  — 1,433  22,062  402 2019  2012  581 Leroy Geor ge Drive
Columbia, MD  — 23 33,885  3,041  9,353  27,596  8,367  2015  1982  5450 & 5500 Knoll N Dr .
Columbia, MO  — 438 12,949  — 438 12,949  716 2019  1994  1601 E. Broadway
Columbia, MO  — 488 16,033  — 488 16,033  629 2019  1999  1605 E. Broadway
Columbia, MO  — 199 23,403  — 199 23,403  823 2019  2007  1705 E. Broadway
Columbia, MD  — 12,159  72,636  320 12,159  72,956  3,187  2018  2009  10710 Charter Drive
(Dollars in thousands)  
    Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description  Encumbrances  Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Outpatient Medical:            
Columbia, MD  — 2,333  19,232 1,920  2,333 21,152 5,855  2012 2002 10700 Charter Drive
Coon Rapids, MN  — — 26,679 1,143  — 27,822 6,473  2013 2014 11850 Blackfoot Street NW
Coral Springs, FL  — 2,109  12,189 — 2,109 12,189 516 2019 2005 2901 Coral Hills Drive
Coral Springs, FL  — 1,313  13,118 — 1,313 13,118 415 2019 2008 3001 Coral Hills Drive
Costa Mesa, CA  21,243  22,033  24,332 135 22,033 24,467 4,889  2017 2007 1640 Newport Boulevard
Cypress, TX  — 1,287  — — 1,287 — — 2016 1900 14940 Mueschke Road
Dade City , FL  — 1,211 5,511 — 1,211 5,511 1,675  2011 1998 13413 US Hwy 301
Dallas, TX  — 122 15,418 25 122 15,443 2,311 2013 2014 8196 Walnut Hill Lane
Dallas, TX  — 6,086  18,007 1,437  6,536 18,994 1,362  2018 2010 10740 North Central Expressway
Dallas, TX  — 462 52,488 1,984  462 54,472 12,770  2012 2004 7115 Greenville Avenue
Deerfield Beach, FL  — 2,408  7,809 793 2,540 8,470 3,608  2011 2001 1192 East Newport Center Drive
Delray Beach, FL  — 1,882  34,767 816 2,451 35,014 18,094  2006 1985 5130-5150 Linton Blvd.
Dunkirk, MD  — 259 2,458 — 259 2,458 128 2019 1997 10845 Town Center Blvd
Durham, NC  — 1,212  22,858 2 1,212 22,860 4,750  2013 2012 1823 Hillandale Road
Durham, NC  — 1,403  25,163 — 1,403 25,163 552 2019 2000 120 William Penn Plaza
Durham, NC  — 1,751  44,425 — 1,751 44,425 801 2019 2004 3916 Ben Fanklin Boulevard
Edina, MN  — 310 13,105 — 310 13,105 4,988  2010 2003 8100 W 78th St
El Paso, TX  — 677 17,075 1,628  677 18,703 8,779  2006 1997 2400 Trawood Dr .
Elmhurst, IL  — 41 39,562 63 41 39,625 1,622  2018 2011 133 E Brush Hill Road
Elyria, OH  — 3,263  28,176 — 3,263 28,176 655 2019 2008 303 Chestnut Commons Drive
Escondido, CA  — 2,278  20,967 — 2,278 20,967 536 2019 1994 225 East 2nd Avenue
Everett, WA  — 4,842  26,010 62 4,842 26,072 8,671  2010 2011 13020 Meridian Ave. S.
Fenton, MO  — 958 27,461 — 958 27,461 8,411 2013 2009 1011 Bowles Avenue
Fenton, MO  — 369 13,91 1 198 369 14,109 3,371  2013 2009 1055 Bowles Avenue
Fish Kill, NY  — 2,144  36,880 — 2,144 36,880 — 2019 2008 2507 South Road
Florham Park, NJ  — 8,578  61,779 — 8,578 61,779 3,905  2017 2017 150 Park Avenue
Flower Mound, TX  — 737 9,276 232 737 9,508 1,916  2015 2014 2560 Central Park Avenue
Flower Mound, TX  — 4,164  27,027 1,171  4,164 28,198 6,161  2014 2012 4370 Medical Arts Drive
Flower Mound, TX  — 4,620  — — 4,620 — — 2014 1900 Medical Arts Drive
Fort Worth, TX  — 462 26,020 373 462 26,393 6,226  2012 2012 10840 Texas Health Trail
Fort Worth, TX  — 401 5,266 — 401 5,266 1,508  2014 2007 7200 Oakmont Boulevard
Franklin, TN  — 2,338  12,138 3,060  2,338 15,198 6,716  2007 1988 100 Covey Drive
Frederick, MD  — 1,065  7,430 — 1,065 7,430 266 2019 1979 194 Thomas Johnson Drive
Frederick, MD  — 1,930  18,748 — 1,930 18,748 905 2019 2006 45 Thomas Johnson Drive
Fresno, CA  — 1,497  12,669 — 1,497 12,669 — 2019 2004 1105 E Spruce Ave
Frisco, TX  — — 18,635 219 — 18,854 7,798  2007 2004 4401 Coit Road
Frisco, TX  — — 15,309 2,357  — 17,666 7,383  2007 2004 4461 Coit Road
Gallatin, TN  — 20 21,801 1,763  44 23,540 9,124  2010 1997 300 Steam Plant Rd
Gardendale, AL  4,246  1,150  8,162 211 1,150 8,373 465 2018 2005 2217 Decatur Highway
Garland, TX  — 4,952  32,718 — 4,952 32,718 883 2019 2018 7217 Telecome Parkway
Gastonia, NC  — 569 1,092 — 569 1,092 128 2019 2000 934 Cox Road
Gig Harbor , WA  — 80 30,810 1,302  80 32,112 5,032  2010 2009 11511 Canterwood Blvd. NW
Glendale, CA  — 70 44,354 — 70 44,354 1,011 2019 2008 1500 E Chevy Chase Drive
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Outpatient Medical:          
Glendale, CA — 37 18,398 310 37 18,708 7,136  2007 2002 222 W. Eulalia St.
Gloucester , VA — 2,128 9,169 5 2,128 9,174 473 2018 2008 5659 Parkway Drive
Grand Prairie, TX — 981 6,086 — 981 6,086 2,399  2012 2009 2740 N State Hwy 360
Grapevine, TX — — 5,943 4,778 2,081 8,640 2,004  2014 2002 2040 W State Hwy 1 14
Grapevine, TX — 3,365 15,669 2,248 3,365 17,917 4,449  2014 2002 2020 W State Hwy 1 14
Greenville, SC — 1,567 5,167 — 1,567 5,167 504 2019 1987 10 Enterprise Boulevard
Greenwood, IN — 2,098 21,538 638 2,098 22,176 4,393  2014 2013 3000 S State Road 135
Greenwood, IN — 1,262 7,045 8 1,262 7,053 1,953  2014 2010 333 E County Line Road
Harrisbur g, NC — 1,347 3,059 — 1,347 3,059 170 2019 2012 9550 Rocky River Road
Hattiesbur g, MS 17,986 3,155 34,710 — 3,155 34,710 — 2019 2012 3688 Veterans Memorial Drive
Haymarket, VA — 1,250 29,254 — 1,250 29,254 595 2019 2008 15195 Heathcote Blvd
Henderson, NV — 2,587 5,654 — 2,587 5,654 141 2019 2002 2825 Siena Heights Drive
Henderson, NV — 7,372 24,027 — 7,372 24,027 730 2019 2005 2845 Siena Heights Drive
Henderson, NV — 5,492 18,718 — 5,492 18,718 504 2019 2005 2865 Siena Heights Drive
Highland, IL — — 8,834 31 — 8,865 1,897  2012 2013 12860 Troxler Avenue
Hopewell Junction, NY — 2,164 5,333 — 2,164 5,333 — 2019 1999 10 Cranberry Drive
Hopewell Junction, NY — 2,316 5,332 — 2,316 5,332 — 2019 2015 1955 NY -52
Houston, TX — 10,403 — — 10,403 — 8 2011 1900 F.M. 1960 & Northgate Forest Dr .
Houston, TX — 5,837 33,109 1,028 5,837 34,137 12,856  2012 2005 15655 Cypress Woods Medical Dr .
Houston, TX — 2,988 18,018 — 2,988 18,018 — 2016 2019 13105 Wortham Center Drive
Houston, TX — 3,688 13,313 132 3,688 13,445 3,990  2012 2007 10701 Vintage Preserve Parkway
Houston, TX — 1,099 1,604 81,406 12,815 71,294 16,843  2012 1998 2727 W Holcombe Boulevard
Houston, TX 3,775 377 13,660 — 377 13,660 741 2018 2011 20207 Chasewood Park Drive
Howell, MI — 2,000 13,928 794 2,000 14,722 747 2016 2017 1225 South Latson Road
Humble, TX — — 9,941 — 1,702 8,239 1,064  2013 2014 8233 N. Sam Houston Parkway E.
Huntersville, NC — — 42,143 — — 42,143 1,357  2019 2004 10030 Gilead Road
Jackson, MI — 668 17,294 — 668 17,294 5,075  2013 2009 1201 E Michigan Avenue
Jacksonville, FL — 3,562 27,249 — 3,562 27,249 799 2019 2006 10475 Centurion Parkway North
Jefferson City , TN — 109 16,453 — 109 16,453 559 2019 2001 120 Hospital Drive
Jonesboro, GA — 567 16,329 — 567 16,329 482 2019 2009 7813 Spivey Station Boulevard
Jonesboro, GA — 627 16,554 — 627 16,554 452 2019 2007 7823 Spivey Station Boulevard
Jupiter , FL — 2,825 5,858 1,298 3,036 6,945 3,289  2007 2004 600 Heritage Dr .
Jupiter , FL — 2,252 11,415 3,889 2,639 14,917 6,242  2006 2001 550 Heritage Dr .
Killeen, TX — — 3,756 2,235 — 5,991 387 2018 1990 2301 S. Clear Creek
Killeen, TX — 1,907 3,575 — 1,907 3,575 655 2011 2012 5702 E Central Texas Expressway
Killeen, TX — 760 22,878 143 795 22,986 8,746  2010 2010 2405 Clear Creek Rd
Knoxville, TN — 199 45,961 — 199 45,961 1,003  2019 2012 1926 Alcoa Highway
La Jolla, CA — 12,855 32,658 1,496 12,855 34,154 7,206  2015 1989 4150 Regents Park Row
La Jolla, CA — 9,425 26,525 392 9,425 26,917 4,894  2015 1988 4120 & 4130 La Jolla Village Drive
La Quinta, CA — 3,266 22,066 668 3,279 22,721 5,515  2014 2006 47647 Caleo Bay Drive
Lacey , WA 6,589 1,751 10,345 — 1,751 10,345 530 2018 1971 2555 Marvin Road Northeast
Lake St Louis, MO — 240 14,249 337 240 14,586 5,462  2010 2008 400 Medical Dr
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description Encumbrances LandBuilding &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Outpatient Medical:           
Lakeway , TX — 2,801 — — 2,801 — — 2007 1900 Lohmans Crossing Road
Lakewood, CA — 146 14,885  1,956 146 16,841 6,771  2006 1993 5750 Downey Ave.
Lakewood, WA — 72 16,017  707 72 16,724 4,648  2012 2005 11307 Bridgeport Way SW
Land O Lakes, FL — 3,025 26,249  — 3,025 26,249 2,035  2017 2009 2100 Via Bella
Land O Lakes, FL — 1,376 6,750  — 1,376 6,750 581 2017 2011 2150 Via Bella
Las Vegas, NV — 433 4,928  — 433 4,928 2,088  2007 1997 1776 E. Warm Springs Rd.
Las Vegas, NV — 2,319 4,612  1,486 2,319 6,098 2,962  2006 1991 2870 S. Maryland Pkwy .
Lincoln, NE — 1,420 29,723  711 1,420 30,434 11,316  2010 2003 575 South 70th St
Little Rock, AR — 3,021 16,058  — 3,021 16,058 124 2019 2014 6119 Midtown Avenue
London, UK — 5,229 11,551  678 5,440 12,018 1,454  2015 2007 17-19 View Road
London, UK — 17,983 157,802  7,098 18,709 164,174 19,858  2015 2010 53 Parkside
London, UK — 4,081 28,107  1,300 4,246 29,242 3,537  2015 2003 49 Parkside
Los Alamitos, CA — 39 18,340  — 39 18,340 7,081  2007 2003 3771 Katella Ave.
Los Gatos, CA — 488 21,961  — 488 21,961 9,127  2006 1993 555 Knowles Dr .
Los Gatos, CA — 16,896 — — 16,896 — — 2019 1900 555 Knowles Dr .
Loxahatchee, FL — 1,340 6,509  1,490 1,440 7,899 3,475  2006 1993 12989 Southern Blvd.
Loxahatchee, FL — 1,553 4,694  1,680 1,650 6,277 2,948  2006 1994 12983 Southern Blvd.
Loxahatchee, FL — 1,637 5,048  1,280 1,719 6,246 2,942  2006 1997 12977 Southern Blvd.
Lubbock, TX 42,982 2,286 72,893  — 2,286 72,893 — 2019 2006 4515 Marsha Sharp Freeway
Lynbrook, NY 27,196 10,028 37,319  658 10,028 37,977 1,635  2018 1962 444 Merrick Road
Madison, WI — 3,670 28,329  — 3,670 28,329 620 2019 2012 1102 South Park Street
Margate, FL — 219 9,293  — 219 9,293 410 2019 2004 2960 N. State Rd 7
Marietta, GA — 2,682 20,053  1,516 2,703 21,548 3,465  2016 2016 4800 Olde Towne Parkway
Matthews, NC — 10 32,741  — 10 32,741 983 2019 1994 1450 Matthews Township Parkway
Menasha, WI — 1,374 13,861  2,963 1,345 16,853 2,827  2016 1994 1550 Midway Place
Merced, CA — — 13,772  815 — 14,587 5,593  2009 2010 315 Mercy Ave.
Meridian, ID — 3,206 27,107  — 3,206 27,107 — 2019 2009 3277 E Louise Drive
Mesquite, TX — 496 3,834  — 496 3,834 1,203  2012 2012 1575 I-30
Mission Hills, CA 23,325 — 42,276  6,889 4,791 44,374 10,268  2014 1986 11550 Indian Hills Road
Missouri City , TX — 1,360 7,143  — 1,360 7,143 595 2015 2016 7010 Highway 6
Mobile, AL 15,755 2,759 25,180  13 2,759 25,193 990 2018 2003 6144 Airport Boulevard
Moline, IL — — 8,783  69 — 8,852 1,416  2012 2013 3900 28th Avenue Drive
Monticello, MN 6,367 61 18,489  139 61 18,628 4,661  2012 2008 1001 Hart Boulevard
Moorestown, NJ — 6 50,896  867 362 51,407 14,676  2011 2012 401 Young Avenue
Mount Juliet, TN — 1,566 11,697  1,779 1,601 13,441 6,077  2007 2005 5002 Crossings Circle
Mount Kisco, NY — 12,632 51,220  — 12,632 51,220 — 2019 1996 90 - 1 10 South Bedford Road
Mount Vernon, IL — — 24,892  109 — 25,001 7,330  2011 2012 2 Good Samaritan Way
Murrieta, CA — — 47,190  110 — 47,300 20,41 1 2010 2011 28078 Baxter Rd.
Murrieta, CA — 3,800 — — 3,800 — — 2014 1900 28078 Baxter Rd.
Myrtle Beach, SC — 1,357 3,658  — 1,357 3,658 565 2019 1996 8170 Rourk Street
Nampa, ID 15,675 3,439 21,566  — 3,439 21,566 — 2019 2017 1512 12th Avenue
Nashville, TN — 1,806 7,165  3,888 1,942 10,917 5,061  2006 1986 310 25th Ave. N.
New Albany , IN — 2,411 16,494  152 2,414 16,643 3,643  2014 2001 2210 Green Valley Road
(Dollars in thousands)  
   Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description  Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition Land  Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Outpatient Medical:           
Newbur gh, NY  — 9,213 32,354 — 9,213  32,354 — 2019 2015 1200 NY -300
Newburyport, MA  — 3,104 19,370 — 3,104  19,370 684 2019 2008 One Wallace Bashaw Jr . Way
Niagara Falls, NY  — 1,433 10,891 519 1,721  11,122 6,187  2007 1995 6932 - 6934 Williams Rd
Niagara Falls, NY  — 454 8,362 310 454 8,672 3,620  2007 2004 6930 Williams Rd
Norfolk, VA  — 1,138 26,989 — 1,138  26,989 1,006  2019 2014 155 Kingsley Lane
North Canton, OH  13,202 2,518 24,452 — 2,518  24,452 — 2019 2014 7442 Frank Avenue
North Easton, MA  — 2,336 19,876 — 2,336  19,876 — 2019 2007 15 Roche Brothers Way
North Easton, MA  — 2,882 15,999 — 2,882  15,999 — 2019 2008 31 Roche Brothers Way
Norwood, OH  — 1,017 6,638 — 1,017  6,638 50 2019 2006 4685 Forest Avenue
Novi, MI  — 895 36,944 — 895 36,944 1,013  2019 2008 26750 Providence Parkway
Oklahoma City , OK  — 216 18,762 — 216 18,762 5,419  2013 2008 535 NW  9th Street
Oro Valley , AZ  — 89 18,339 1,101 89 19,440 7,305  2007 2004 1521 East Tangerine Rd.
Oxford, NC  — 478 4,971 — 478 4,971 125 2019 2011 107 East McClanahan Street
Palmer , AK  — 283 8,335 265 283 8,600 549 2017 2018 2480 S Woodworth Loop
Palmer , AK  — 217 29,705 1,486 217 31,191 11,825  2007 2006 2490 South Woodworth Loop
Pasadena, TX  — 1,700 8,009 158 1,700  8,167 1,328  2012 2013 5001 E Sam Houston Parkway S
Pearland, TX  — 1,500 11,253 6 1,500  11,259 1,739  2012 2013 2515 Business Center Drive
Pearland, TX  — 9,594 32,753 191 9,807  32,731 6,265  2014 2013 11511 Shadow Creek Parkway
Pendleton, OR  — — 10,312 380 — 10,692 1,672  2012 2013 3001 St. Anthony Way
Phoenix, AZ  — 199 3,853 — 199 3,853 132 2019 1980 9225 N 3rd Street
Phoenix, AZ  — 109 2,207 — 109 2,207 138 2019 1986 9327 North 3rd Street
Phoenix, AZ  — 229 5,867 — 229 5,867 241 2019 1994 9100 N 2nd Street
Phoenix, AZ  — 1,149 48,018 11,409 1,149  59,427 27,378  2006 1998 2222 E. Highland Ave.
Pineville, NC  — 961 6,974 2,582 1,081  9,436 5,009  2006 1988 10512 Park Rd.
Plano, TX  — 793 83,209 5,359 793 88,568 23,750  2012 2005 6020 West Parker Road
Plano, TX  — 5,423 20,698 1,878 5,423  22,576 13,141  2008 2007 6957 Plano Parkway
Plantation, FL  — 8,563 10,666 4,772 8,575  15,426 8,343  2006 1997 851-865 SW  78th Ave.
Plantation, FL  — 8,848 9,262 2,036 8,908  11,238 7,026  2006 1996 600 Pine Island Rd.
Port Orchard, WA  9,973 2,810 22,716 39 2,810  22,755 1,037  2018 1995 450 South Kitsap Boulevard
Poughkeepsie, NY  — 4,035 30,459 — 4,035  30,459 — 2019 2010 30 Columbia Street
Poughkeepsie, NY  — 6,513 27,863 — 6,513  27,863 — 2019 2006 600 Westage Drive
Poughkeepsie, NY  19,065 5,128 20,769 — 5,128  20,769 — 2019 2012 1910 South Road
Powell, TN  — 179 27,417 — 179 27,417 907 2019 2005 7557 A Dannaher Drive
Powell, TN  — 179 34,903 — 179 34,903 699 2019 2008 7557 B Dannaher Drive
Prince Frederick, MD  — 229 26,889 — 229 26,889 792 2019 2009 130 Hospital Road
Prince Frederick, MD  — 179 12,801 — 179 12,801 389 2019 1991 110 Hospital Road
Rancho Mirage, CA  — 7,292 15,141 — 7,292  15,141 — 2019 2005 72780 Country Club Drive
Redmond, WA  — 5,015 26,697 1,080 5,015  27,777 9,474  2010 2011 18100 NE Union Hill Rd.
Reno, NV  — 1,117 21,972 2,239 1,117 24,21 1 10,179  2006 1991 343 Elm St.
Richmond, TX  — 2,000 9,118 4 2,000  9,122 856 2015 2016 22121 FM 1093 Road
Richmond, VA  — 2,969 26,697 1,450 3,090  28,026 9,730  2012 2008 7001 Forest Avenue
Rockwall, TX  — 132 17,197 393 132 17,590 4,751  2012 2008 3142 Horizon Road
Rogers, AR  — 1,062 28,680 2,411 1,062  31,091 10,619  2011 2008 2708 Rife Medical Lane
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description Encumbrances Land  Building &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
Acquired  Year
Built Address
Outpatient Medical:                
Rolla, MO — 1,931  47,639  1 1,931  47,640  14,809  2011 2009 1605 Martin Spring Drive
Rome, GA — 99 29,597  — 99 29,597  1,510  2019  2005 330 Turner McCall Boulevard
Roseville, MN — 2,963  20,169  — 2,963  20,169  — 2019  2015 1835 W County Road C
Roxboro, NC — 368 2,477  — 368 2,477  63 2019  2000 799 Doctors Court
Salem, NH — 1,655  14,050  46 1,681  14,070  3,713  2014  2013 31 Stiles Road
San Antonio, TX — 1,057  10,101  123 1,057  10,224  5,375  2006  1999 19016 Stone Oak Pkwy .
San Antonio, TX — 1,038  9,173  1,848  1,096  10,963  5,795  2006  1999 540 Stone Oak Centre Drive
San Antonio, TX — 2,915  11,141  — 2,915  11,141  462 2019  2006 150 E Sonterra Blvd
San Antonio, TX — 3,050  12,073  31 3,050  12,104  600 2016  2017 5206 Research Drive
San Antonio, TX — 938 16,437  — 938 16,437  4,571  2014  2007 3903 Wiseman Boulevard
Santa Clarita, CA — — 2,338  20,669  5,304  17,703  3,884  2014  1976 23861 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA — — 28,384  2,550  5,277  25,657  5,165  2014  1998 23929 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA — 278 185 11,594  11,872  185 178 2014  1996 23871 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA 25,000 295 39,284  — 295 39,284  6,311 2014  2013 23803 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA — — 20,618  1,076  4,407  17,287  3,670  2014  1989 24355 L yons Avenue
Seattle, WA — 4,410  38,428  409 4,410  38,837  17,817  2010  2010 5350 Tallman Ave
Sewell, NJ — 1,242  11,616  6 1,242  11,622  641 2018  2007 556 Egg Harbor Road
Sewell, NJ — 164 53,859  — 164 53,859  21,033  2007  2009 239 Hurf fville-Cross Keys Road
Shakopee, MN 5,393 509 11,350  — 509 11,350  4,472  2010  1996 1515 St Francis Ave
Shakopee, MN 9,093 707 18,089  156 773 18,179  5,640  2010  2007 1601 St Francis Ave
Shenandoah, TX — — 21,135  62 4,574  16,623  2,083  2013  2014 106 Vision Park Boulevard
Sherman Oaks, CA — — 32,186  3,412  3,121  32,477  7,246  2014  1969 4955 Van Nuys Boulevard
Silverdale, WA 13,117 3,451  21,176  12 3,451  21,188  919 2018  2004 2200 NW  Myhre Road
Somerville, NJ — 3,400  22,244  2 3,400  22,246  6,349  2008  2007 30 Rehill Avenue
Southlake, TX — 3,000  — — 3,000  — — 2014  1900 Central Avenue
Southlake, TX — 2,875  15,471  — 2,875  15,471  350 2019  2017 925 E. Southlake Boulevard
Southlake, TX — 592 18,123  — 592 18,123  5,863  2012  2004 1545 East Southlake Boulevard
Southlake, TX — 698 30,549  48 698 30,597  8,090  2012  2004 1545 East Southlake Boulevard
Springfield, IL — 1,569  10,350  — 1,568  10,351  1,637  2010  2011 1100 East Lincolnshire Blvd
Springfield, IL — 177 3,519  31 177 3,550  580 2010  2011 2801 Mathers Rd.
Springfield, MA — 2,721  6,615  — 2,721  6,615  — 2019  2012 305 Bicentennial Highway
St Paul, MN — 49 37,695  400 49 38,095  6,317  2014  2006 225 Smith Avenue N.
St. Louis, MO — 336 17,247  2,397  336 19,644  8,096  2007  2001 2325 Dougherty Rd.
St. Paul, MN — 2,706  39,507  386 2,701  39,898  13,580  2011 2007 435 Phalen Boulevard
Stamford, CT — — 41,153  2,636  — 43,789  3,620  2015  2016 29 Hospital Plaza
Stockton, CA 11,639 4,966  16,844  — 4,966  16,844  — 2019  2009 2488 N California Street
Suffern, NY — 696 37,21 1 — 696 37,21 1 13,568  2011 2007 257 Lafayette Avenue
Suffolk, VA — 1,566  11,511 229 1,620  11,686  5,119 2010  2007 5838 Harbour View Blvd.
Sugar Land, TX — 3,543  15,532  — 3,543  15,532  6,172  2012  2005 11555 University Boulevard
Tacoma, WA — — 64,307  — — 64,307  20,433  2011 2013 1608 South J Street
Tallahassee, FL — — 17,449  — — 17,449  6,615  2010  2011 One Healing Place
Tampa, FL — 4,319  12,234  — 4,319  12,234  3,181  2011 2003 14547 Bruce B Downs Blvd
(Dollars in thousands)  
   Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description  Encumbrances Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition  LandBuilding &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built Address
Outpatient Medical:             
Tampa, FL  — 1,462  7,270 — 1,462 7,270  614 2017  1996 12500 N Dale Mabry
Temple, TX — 2,900  9,954 26 2,900 9,980  1,880 2011 2012 2601 Thornton Lane
Timonium,
MD  — 8,829  12,568 161 8,850 12,708  1,323 2015  2017 2118 Greenspring Drive
Tucson, AZ — 1,302  4,925 1,113 1,325 6,015  3,095 2008  1995 2055 W. Hospital Dr .
Tustin, CA  — 3,345  541 223 3,345 764 310 2015  1976 14591 Newport Ave
Tustin, CA  — 3,361  12,039 1,913  3,361 13,952  3,436 2015  1985 14642 Newport Ave
Tyler, TX  61,899 2,903  114,853 — 2,903 114,853  — 2019  2013 1814 Roseland Boulevard
Van Nuys,
CA  — — 36,187 — — 36,187  10,936 2009  1991 6815 Noble Ave.
Voorhees,
NJ  — 6 96,075 757 99 96,739  29,171 2010  2012 200 Bowman Drive
Voorhees,
NJ  — 6,404  24,251 1,817  6,477 25,995  10,633 2006  1997 900 Centennial Blvd.
Waco, TX — 125 164 — 125 164 4 2018  1962 6612 Fish Pond Road
Waco, TX — 35 113 — 35 113 3 2018  1961 6620 Fish Pond Rd
Waco, TX — 441 2,537 — 441 2,537  195 2018  2000 6600 Fish Pond Rd
Waco, TX 14,496 2,250  28,632 106 2,250 28,738  1,240 2018  1981 601 Highway 6 West
Washington,
PA  19,273 3,981  31,706 17 3,981 31,723  1,389 2018  2010 100 Trich Drive
Wausau, WI — 2,050  12,175 — 2,050 12,175  1,223 2015  2017 1901 Westwood Center Boulevard
Waxahachie,
TX  — 303 18,069 — 303 18,069  2,578 2016  2014 2460 N I-35 East
Wellington,
FL  — 580 11,047 — 580 11,047  5,030 2007  2003 1395 State Rd. 7
Wellington,
FL  — 107 16,933 2,229  326 18,943  7,693 2006  2000 10115 Forest Hill Blvd.
Westlake
Village, CA  6,360 2,487  9,776 6 2,487 9,782  684 2018  1989 1220 La Venta Drive
Westlake
Village, CA  7,999 2,553  15,851 95 2,553 15,946  1,044 2018  1975 1250 La Venta Drive
Westville,
IN  — 1,293  13,227 — 1,293 13,227  279 2019  2010 1668 South US 421
Winston-
Salem, NC  — 2,006  7,497 — 2,006 7,497  526 2019  1998 2025 Frontis Plaza
Woodbridge,
VA  — 346 16,534 — 346 16,534  617 2018  2012 12825 Minnieville Road
Yuma, AZ — 1,592  10,185 — 1,592 10,185  496 2019  2004 2270 South Ridgeview Drive
Zephyrhills,
FL  — 3,875  27,270 — 3,875 27,270  7,779 2011 1974 38135 Market Square Dr
Zephyrhills,
FL  — 5,444  29,088 — 5,444 29,088  1,725 2018  2016 2352 Bruce B Downs Boulevard
Outpatient
Medical
Total  $ 572,266 $ 885,789 $ 6,626,075 $ 323,055 $ 959,834 $ 6,875,085 $ 1,248,499   
106
Welltower Inc.   
Schedule III   
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation   
December 31, 2019   
(Dollars in thousands)   
   Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description Encumbrances  LandBuildings &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition  LandBuildings &
Improvements  Accumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Assets Held For  Sale:   
Adelphi, MD $ — $ 1,429 $ 4,312 $ — $ — $ 5,554  $ — 2018  1967  1801 Metzerott Road
Akron, OH — 821 12,105 — — 9,544  — 2012  2010  701 White Pond Drive
Ayer, MA — — 22,074 — — 8,735  — 2011 1988  400 Groton Road
Birmingham, AL — 52 10,201 — — 5,508  — 2006  1971  801 Princeton Avenue SW
Birmingham, AL — 124 11,733 — — 7,995  — 2006  1985  817 Princeton Avenue SW
Birmingham, AL — 476 18,726 — — 12,234  — 2006  1989  833 Princeton Avenue SW
Boardman, OH — 80 12,161 — — 7,403  — 2010  2007  8423 Market St
Brookline, MA — — 17,435 — — 17,435  — 2019  1900  110 Fisher Avenue
Burlington, MA — 2,750 57,488 — — 56,762  — 2016  2011 50 Greenleaf Way
Carmel, IN — 2,280 19,238 — — 14,226  — 2011 2005  12188-A  North Meridian Street
Carmel, IN — 2,026 21,559 — — 14,292  — 2011 2007  12188-B North Meridian Street
Claremore, OK — 132 11,173 — — 7,529  — 2007  2005  1501 N. Florence Ave.
Concord, NH — 720 3,041 — — 3,344  — 2011 1926  227 Pleasant Street
Dallas, TX — 137 28,690 — — 18,703  — 2006  1995  9330 Poppy Dr .
Dayton, OH — 730 6,919 — — 4,586  — 2011 1988  1530 Needmore Road
Fort Wayne, IN — 1,105 22,836 — — 17,809  — 2012  2004  7916 Jef ferson Boulevard
Fullerton, CA — 5,477 53,890 — — 54,244  — 2014  2007  1950 Sunny Crest Drive
Gilroy , CA — 760 13,880 13,331  — 27,971  — 2006  2007  7610 Isabella Way
Great Falls, MT — 630 6,007 — — 6,131  — 2018  2001  1801 9th Street South
Greenwood, IN — 8,316 26,384 — — 26,763  — 2012  2010  1260 Innovation Parkway
Guelph, ON — 1,190 7,597 — — — — 2015  1978  165 Cole Road
Henderson, NV — 880 29,809 — — 24,506  — 2011 2009  1935 Paseo Verde Parkway
High Point, NC — 2,659 29,069 — — 24,246  — 2012  2010  4515 Premier Drive
Houston, TX — 3,102 32,323 — — 31,476  — 2014  2014  1900 N Loop W Freeway
Houston, TX — 5,090 9,471 — — 7,840  — 2007  2009  15015 Cypress Woods Medical Drive
Hudson, OH — 2,587 13,720 — — 11,865  — 2012  2006  5655 Hudson Drive
Hyattsville, MD — 4,017 2,298 — — 6,206  — 2018  1964  6500 Riggs Road
Kirkland, WA 24,600  3,450 38,709 — — 33,598  — 2011 2009  14 Main Street South
Kitchener , ON — 1,130 9,939 — — — — 2013  1988  20 Fieldgate Street
Kyle, TX — 2,569 14,384 — — 13,928  — 2014  2011 135 Bunton Creek Road
Largo, MD — 3,361 3,623 — — 6,819  — 2018  1978  600 Lar go Road
Las Vegas, NV — 74 15,287 — — 9,765  — 2006  2000  1815 E. Lake Mead Blvd.
Las Vegas, NV — — 2,945 — — 2,945  — 2007  1900  SW corner of Deer Springs Way and
Riley Street
Lenexa, KS — 540 17,926 — — 12,460  — 2010  2008  23401 Prairie Star Pkwy
Lenexa, KS — 100 13,766 — — 11,718  — 2013  2013  23351 Prairie Star Parkway
Mechanicsbur g, PA — 1,350 16,650 — — 1,964  — 2011 1971  4950 Wilson Lane
Melbourne, FL — 3,439 50,461 — — 43,431  — 2014  2009  2222 South Harbor City Boulevard
(Dollars in thousands)   
    Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description  Encumbrances  LandBuildings &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  LandBuildings &
Improvements  Accumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Assets Held For  Sale:   
Merriam, KS  — 176 8,005 — — 5,235  — 2011 1972  8800 West 75th Street
Merriam, KS  — — 10,222 — — 8,218  — 2011 1977  8901 West 74th Street
Merriam, KS  — 1,257 24,91 1 — — 18,927  — 2013  2009  9301 West 74th Street
Merrillville, IN  — — 22,134 — — 15,000  — 2008  2006  101 E. 87th Ave.
Mesa, AZ  — 1,558 9,561 — — 7,244  — 2008  1989  6424 East Broadway Road
Morrow , GA  — 818 8,064 — — 4,673  — 2007  1990  6635 Lake Drive
Nassau Bay , TX  — 378 29,947 — — 14,655  — 2012  1981  18100 St John Drive
Nassau Bay , TX  — 91 10,613 — — 5,303  — 2012  1986  2060 Space Park Drive
Needham, MA  — 1,240 32,992 — — 32,308  — 2016  2011 880 Greendale Avenue
Newburyport, MA  — 1,750 29,187 — — 29,118 — 2016  2015  4 Wallace Bashaw Junior Way
Niagara Falls, ON  — 1,225 7,963 — — — — 2015  1991  7860 Lundy's Lane
North Cape May , NJ  — 77 151 4,203  — 4,431  — 2015  1988  610 Town Bank Road
North Dartmouth, MA  — 1,700 35,337 — — 35,298  — 2016  1997  239 Cross Road
Oceanside, CA  — 2,160 18,352 — — 18,111 — 2011 2005  3500 Lake Boulevard
Ogden, UT  — 384 2,228 — — — — 2018  1987  400 East 5350 South
Palm Springs, FL  — 739 4,066 — — 2,061  — 2006  1993  1640 S. Congress Ave.
Palm Springs, FL  — 1,182 7,765 — — 3,790  — 2006  1997  1630 S. Congress Ave.
Plymouth, MA  12,860  2,550 35,055 — — 35,551  — 2016  1970  60 Staf ford Hill
Portland, ME  — 655 25,529 — — 17,783  — 2011 2008  195 Fore River Parkway
Renton, WA  20,790  3,080 51,824 12,281  — 67,185  — 2011 2007  104 Burnett Avenue South
Rexbur g, ID  — 1,267 3,213 — — 67 — 2018  1988  660 South 2nd West
Roswell, NM  — 183 5,850 — — 3,909  — 2011 2004  601 West Country Club Road
Roswell, NM  — 883 15,984 — — 11,896  — 2011 2006  350 West Country Club Road
Roswell, NM  — 762 17,171 — — 13,361  — 2011 2009  300 West Country Club Road
Sacramento, CA  — 866 12,756 — — 7,714  — 2006  1990  8120 Timberlake Way
San Antonio, TX  — 4,518 31,041 — — 28,015  — 2012  1986  5282 Medical Drive
San Diego, CA  — — 22,003 — — — — 2008  1992  555 Washington St.
San Diego, CA  — 4,200 30,707 — — 29,218  — 2011 2011 2567 Second Avenue
San Jose, CA  — 2,850 35,098 — — 30,088  — 2011 2009  1420 Curvi Drive
Santa Maria, CA  — 6,050 50,658 — — 44,355  — 2011 2001  1220 Suey Road
Sarasota, FL  — 62 47,325 — — 36,149  — 2012  1990  1921 Waldemere Street
Seattle, WA  48,540  6,790 85,369 — — 73,052  — 2011 2009  5300 24th Avenue NE
Tacoma, WA  17,640  2,400 35,053 — — 30,014  — 2011 2008  7290 Rosemount Circle
Tacoma, WA  — 1,535 6,068 — — 6,479  — 2015  2012  7290 Rosemount Circle
Tewksbury , MA  — 2,350 24,118 — — 25,200  — 2016  2006  2000 Emerald Court
Toronto, ON  — 1,361 2,915 — — — — 2013  1985  3705 Bathurst Street
West Seneca, NY  — 917 22,435 — — 16,218  — 2007  1990  550 Orchard Park Rd
Wilkes-Barre, P A  — 570 2,301 — — 2,847  — 2011 1992  300 Courtright Street
Assets Held For  Sale
Total  $ 124,430 $122,167 $1,511,800 $ 29,815 $ — $1,253,008 $ —      
107
   Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period
  Encumbrances Land  Buildings &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition  LandBuildings &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation
Summary:            
Seniors Housing Operating  $ 1,990,607 $ 1,383,927  $ 13,886,675 $ 1,879,176  $ 1,469,078 $ 15,680,700  $ 3,194,057
Triple-net  306,038 1,036,151  7,894,992 351,136  1,057,708 8,224,571  1,272,903
Outpatient Medical  572,266 885,789  6,626,075 323,055  959,834 6,875,085  1,248,499
Construction in progress  — — 507,931 — — 507,931  —
Total continuing operating pr operties  2,868,91 1 3,305,867 28,915,673 2,553,367 3,486,620 31,288,287 5,715,459
Assets held for sale  124,430 122,167  1,511,800 29,815  — 1,253,008  —
Total investments in r eal pr operty owned  $ 2,993,341 $ 3,428,034  $ 30,427,473 $ 2,583,182  $ 3,486,620 $ 32,541,295  $ 5,715,459
(1) Please see Note 2  to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding lives used for depreciation and amortization.
  Year Ended December 31,
  2019  2018 2017
    (in thousands)  
Investment in real estate:      
Beginning balance  $ 33,590,388 $ 30,581,948 $ 30,041,058
Acquisitions and development  4,807,418 4,598,670 1,276,636
Improvements  328,824 266,183 250,276
Deconsolidation of previously consolidated venture  — — (144,897)
Impairment of assets  (28,074) (71,336) (101,527)
Dispositions  (2,673,203) (1,330,679) (1,203,247)
Foreign currency translation  187,853 (454,398) 415,879
Other(1)  (185,291) — 47,770
Ending balance(2)  $ 36,027,915 $ 33,590,388 $ 30,581,948
Accumulated depreciation:      
Beginning balance  $ 5,499,958 $ 4,838,370 $ 4,093,494
Depreciation and amortization expenses  1,027,073 950,459 921,720
Amortization of above market leases  5,752 6,375 7,303
Disposition and other  (772,273) (205,562) (192,029)
Foreign currency translation  (45,051) (89,684) 7,882
Ending balance  $ 5,715,459 $ 5,499,958 $ 4,838,370
(1) 2019 change primarily relates to the adoption of ASC 842 and the 2017 change primarily relates to the acquisition of an asset through foreclosure.
(2) The unaudited aggregate cost for tax purposes for real property equals $30,691,276,000 at December 31, 2019.
108
Welltower Inc.
Schedule IV - Mortgage Loans on Real Estate
December 31, 2019
      (in thousands)
Location  Segment Interest Rate Final Maturity
DateMonthly
Payment
Terms  Prior LiensFace
Amount of
Mortgages Carrying
Amount of
MortgagesPrincipal
Amount of
Loans Subject
to Delinquent
Principal or
Interest
First mortgages relating to 1 property located in:       
California  Triple-net 7.95%  1/1/2022$ 696 $ — $131,100 $53,071 $ —
United Kingdom  Triple-net 7.25%  3/15/2022 139 — 27,828 23,788 —
United Kingdom  Triple-net 8.53%  7/7/2021 140 — 19,904 19,904 —
Pennsylvania  Triple-net 8.72%  3/1/2022 108 — 15,530 15,108 —
North Carolina  Triple-net 7.83%  12/18/2023 92 — 30,883 16,259 —
Texas  Outpatient Medical 7.86%  1/19/2025 24 — 3,740 3,733 —
United Kingdom  Triple-net 8.50%  2/1/2024 92 — 19,876 13,823 —
Totals        $ — $248,861 $145,686 $ —
 
  Year Ended December 31,
  2019  2018  2017
Reconciliation of mortgage loans:  (in thousands)
Balance at beginning of year  $ 249,071 $ 306,120 $ 485,735
Additions:       
New mortgage loans  — 25,290 6,706
Draws on existing loans  45,961 36,458 58,224
            Total additions  45,961 61,748 64,930
Deductions:       
Collections of principal  (87,249) (116,905) (180,135)
Loan balance transferred to non real estate loans receivable  (64,040) — —
Change in allowance for loan losses and charge-offs  — — (71,535)
Total deductions  (151,289) (116,905) (251,670)
Change in balance due to foreign currency translation  1,944 (1,892) 7,125
Balance at end of year  $ 145,686 $ 249,071 $ 306,120
109
