UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 10-K
 
☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020
☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from ____ to ____
 Commission File Number 1-8923
WELL TOWER INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 34-1096634
(State or other jurisdiction of
 incorporation or organization)(I.R.S. Employer
 Identification No.)
   
4500 Dorr Street,Toledo,Ohio 43615
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
(419) 247-2800
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of Each Class Trading Symbol(s) Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
Common Stock, $1.00 par value WELL New York Stock Exchange
4.800% Notes due 2028 WELL28 New York Stock Exchange
4.500% Notes due 2034 WELL34 New York Stock Exchange
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes  ☑  No  ☐
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.  Yes  ☐   No  ☑
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.  Yes  ☑  No  ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).  Yes  ☑ 
No  ☐  
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging
growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act. 
Large accelerated filer ☑ Accelerated filer☐
 Non-accelerated filer☐
 Smaller reporting company ☐Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised
financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes  ☐   No  ☑
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section
404(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report ☑
The aggregate market value of the shares of voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing sales price of such
shares on the New York Stock Exchange as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter was $21,561,545,000.
As of January 29, 2021, the registrant had 417,383,039 shares of common stock outstanding.
 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the annual stockholders’ meeting to be held May 6, 2021, are incorporated by reference into Part III.
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
2020 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
  Page
 PART I
   
Item 1. Business 2
Item 1A. Risk Factors 24
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 39
Item 2. Properties 39
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 41
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 41
   
 PART II
   
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities 42
Item 6. Selected Financial Data 43
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 44
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 68
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 69
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 105
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 105
Item 9B. Other Information 107
   
 PART III
   
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 107
Item 11. Executive Compensation 107
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters107
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 107
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 107
   
 PART IV
   
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 108
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 114
 Signature 115
PART I 
Item 1. Business 
General
Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health
care infrastructure. The company invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund
the real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health
care experience. Welltower™, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-
growth markets in the United States (“U.S.”), Canada and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), consisting of seniors housing, post-acute
communities and outpatient medical properties. More information is available on the Internet at www.welltower.com. The
information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included
as an inactive textual reference only.
Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash
dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in
net operating income and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and
health care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location.
References herein to “we,” “us,” “our” or the “company” refer to Welltower Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries
unless specifically noted otherwise.
Portfolio of Properties
Please see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Executive
Summary – Company Overview” for a table that summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2020.
Property Types
We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate and evaluate our business through three reportable segments: Seniors
Housing Operating, Triple-net and Outpatient Medical. For additional information regarding our segments, please see Note 18 to
our consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of
significant accounting policies in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. The following is a summary of our various
property types. 
Seniors Housing Operating
Our Seniors Housing Operating properties include seniors apartments, independent living and independent supportive living,
continuing care retirement communities, assisted living, Alzheimer's/dementia care and include care homes with or without nursing
(U.K.), which assist with activities of daily living that preserve a person's mobility and social systems to promote cognitive
engagement. Our properties include stand-alone properties that provide one level of service, combination properties that provide
multiple levels of service and communities or campuses that provide a wide range of services. Properties are primarily held in joint
venture entities with operating partners. We utilize the structure authorized by the REIT Investment Diversification and
Empowerment Act of 2007, which is commonly referred to as a “RIDEA” structure (the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
authorizing the RIDEA structure were enacted as part of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008). 
Seniors Apartments Seniors apartments generally refer to age-restricted multi-unit housing with self-contained living units for
older adults, usually aged 55+ who are able to care for themselves. Seniors apartments generally do not offer other additional
services such as meals.
Independent Living and Independent Supportive Living (Canada)  Independent living and independent supportive living
generally refers to age-restricted, multifamily properties with central dining that provide residents access to meals and other
services such as housekeeping, linen service, transportation and social and recreational activities. 
Continuing Care Retirement Communities  Continuing care retirement communities typically include a combination of detached
homes and properties offering independent living, assisted living and/or long-term/post-acute care services on one campus. These
communities appeal to residents because there is no need to relocate when health and medical needs change. Resident payment
plans vary, but can include entrance fees, condominium fees and rental fees. Many of these communities also charge monthly
maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. 
Assisted Living  Assisted living refers to state-regulated rental properties that provide independent living services, but also
provide supportive care from trained employees to residents who require assistance with activities of daily living, including, but not
limited to, management of medications, bathing, dressing, toileting, ambulating and eating.
Alzheimer’s/Dementia Care  Alzheimer's/Dementia Care refers to state-regulated rental properties that generally provide assisted
living and independent living services, but also provide supportive care to residents with memory loss, Alzheimer's
2
disease and/or other types of dementia. Amenities vary, but may include enhanced security, specialized design features and
memory-enhancing therapies that promote relaxation and help slow cognitive decline.
Care Homes with or without Nursing (U.K.)  Care homes without nursing, regulated by the Care Quality Commission ("CQC”),
are rental properties that provide essentially the same services as U.S. assisted living. Care homes with nursing, also regulated by
the CQC, are licensed daily rate or rental properties where most individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally,
these properties are licensed for various national and local reimbursement programs. Unlike the U.S., care homes with nursing in
the U.K. generally do not provide post-acute care.
Our Seniors Housing Operating segment accounted for 67%, 67% and 69% of total revenues for the years ended December 31,
2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, we had relationships with 27 operators to manage our Seniors
Housing Operating properties. In each instance, our partner provides management services to the properties pursuant to an
incentive-based management contract. We rely on our partners to effectively and efficiently manage these properties. For the year
ended December 31, 2020, our relationship with Sunrise Senior Living accounted for approximately 37% of our Seniors Housing
Operating segment revenues and 25% of our total revenues. Additionally Revera accounted for approximately 12% of our Seniors
Housing Operating segment revenues and 8% of our total revenues. Revera owns a controlling interest in Sunrise Senior Living.
Triple-net
Our Triple-net properties offer services including independent living and independent supportive living (Canada), assisted living,
continuing care retirement communities, Alzheimer's/dementia care and care homes with or without nursing (U.K.) described
above, as well as long-term/post-acute care. We invest primarily through acquisitions, development and joint venture partnerships.
Our properties are primarily leased to operators under long-term, triple-net master leases that obligate the tenant to pay all operating
costs, utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs, maintenance costs and all obligations under certain ground leases. We
are not involved in property management. Our properties include stand-alone properties that provide one level of service,
combination facilities that provide multiple levels of service, and communities or campuses that provide a wide range of services. 
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care Facilities  Post-acute care is at the leading edge of reducing health care costs while improving
quality. These high-impact centers help patients recover from illness or surgery with the goals of getting the patient home and
healed faster and reducing hospital readmission rates. Our long-term/post-acute care properties generally offer skilled nursing/post-
acute care, inpatient rehabilitation and long-term acute care services. Skilled nursing/post-acute care refers to licensed daily rate or
rental properties where most individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for
Medicaid and/or Medicare reimbursement in the U.S. or provincial reimbursement in Canada. All properties offer some level of
rehabilitation services. Some properties focus on higher acuity patients and offer rehabilitation units specializing in cardiac,
orthopedic, dialysis, neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation. Inpatient rehabilitation properties provide intensive inpatient
services after illness, injury or surgery to patients able to tolerate and benefit from three hours of rehabilitation per day. Long-term
acute care properties provide inpatient services for patients with complex medical conditions that require more intensive care,
monitoring or emergency support than is available in most skilled nursing/post-acute care properties.
Our Triple-net segment accounted for 17%, 19% and 19% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and
2018, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2020, our revenues related to our relationship with ProMedica Health System
("ProMedica") accounted for approximately 27% of our Triple-net segment revenues and 5% of total revenues. As of December 31,
2020, our relationship with ProMedica was comprised of a master lease for 215 properties owned by a joint venture landlord of
which we own 80%. In addition to rent, the master lease requires ProMedica to pay all operating costs, utilities, real estate taxes,
insurance, building repairs, maintenance costs and all obligations under certain ground leases. All obligations under the master
lease have been guaranteed by ProMedica.
During 2020, Genesis Healthcare ("Genesis") indicated substantial doubt as to their ability to continue as a going concern. As a
result, effective July 1, 2020, we have written off all existing straight-line rent receivable balances of $91,025,000 as a reduction to
rental income and now recognize rental income from Genesis on a cash basis. For the year ended December 31, 2020, our revenues
related to our relationship with Genesis accounted for approximately 4% of our Triple-net segment revenues and 1% of our total
revenues. As of December 31, 2020, our relationship with Genesis was comprised of two master leases for 52 properties owned
100% by us, six loans with a balance net of allowance for credit losses of $136,162,000, approximately 9.5 million shares of GEN
Series A common stock (representing approximately 9% of total GEN common stock) and a 25% ownership stake in an
unconsolidated joint venture that includes two master leases for 28 properties operated by Genesis. In addition to rent, the master
leases require Genesis to pay all operating costs, utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs, maintenance costs and all
obligations under certain ground leases. All obligations under the master lease have been guaranteed by FC-GEN Operations
Investment, LLC, a subsidiary of Genesis and Genesis is current on all obligations to Welltower through December 31, 2020.
3
Outpatient Medical
Outpatient Medical Buildings  Demand for outpatient medical services is growing as more procedures are performed safely and
efficiently outside the hospital setting. State-of-the-art outpatient centers are needed in accessible, consumer-friendly locations. Our
portfolio of outpatient medical buildings is an integral part of creating health care provider connectivity in local markets and
generally include physician offices, ambulatory surgery centers, diagnostic facilities, outpatient services and/or labs. Approximately
92% of our outpatient medical building portfolio is affiliated with health systems (buildings directly on or adjacent to hospital
campuses or with tenants that are satellite locations for the health system and its physicians). We typically lease our outpatient
medical buildings to multiple tenants and provide varying levels of property management. Our Outpatient Medical segment
accounted for 16%, 13% and 12% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018,
respectively. No single tenant exceeds 20% of segment revenues.
Investments
Providing high-quality and affordable health care to an aging global population requires vast investments and infrastructure
development. We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate primarily through acquisitions, developments and joint
venture partnerships. For additional information regarding acquisition and development activity, please see Note 3 to our
consolidated financial statements. Our portfolio creates opportunities to connect partners across the continuum of care and drive
efficiency. We seek to diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location. In determining
whether to invest in a property, we focus on the following: (1) the experience of the obligor’s/partner’s management team; (2) the
historical and projected financial and operational performance of the property; (3) the credit of the obligor/partner; (4) the security
for any lease or loan; (5) the real estate attributes of the building and its location; (6) the capital committed to the property by the
obligor/partner; and (7) the operating fundamentals of the applicable industry. 
We monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of property. Our asset management process for
seniors housing properties generally includes review of monthly financial statements and other operating data for each property,
review of obligor/partner creditworthiness, property inspections, and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real
estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our internal property management division manages and monitors the outpatient
medical portfolio with a comprehensive process including review of, among other things, tenant relations, lease expirations, the
mix of health service providers, hospital/health system relationships, property performance, capital improvement needs, and market
conditions. 
Investment Types 
Real Property  Our properties are primarily comprised of land, buildings, improvements and related rights. Our triple-net
properties are generally leased to operators under long-term operating leases. The leases generally have a fixed contractual term of
12 to 15 years and contain one or more five to 15-year renewal options. Certain of our leases also contain purchase options, a
portion of which could result in the disposition of properties for less than full market value if the options were to be exercised. Most
of our rents are received under triple-net leases requiring the operator to pay rent and all additional charges incurred in the
operation of the leased property. The tenants are required to repair, rebuild and maintain the leased properties. Substantially all
these operating leases are designed with escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally
recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to
leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. 
At December 31, 2020, approximately 95% of our triple-net properties were subject to master leases. A master lease is a lease of
multiple properties to one tenant entity under a single lease agreement. From time to time, we may acquire additional properties
that are then leased to the tenant under the master lease. The tenant is required to make one monthly payment that represents rent on
all the properties that are subject to the master lease. Typically, the master lease tenant can exercise its right to purchase the
properties or to renew the master lease only with respect to all leased properties at the same time. We believe this bundling feature
benefits us because the tenant cannot limit the purchase or renewal to better performing properties and terminate the leasing
arrangement with respect to poorer performing properties. This spreads our risk among the entire group of properties within the
master lease. The bundling feature should provide a similar advantage to us if the master lease tenant is in bankruptcy. Subject to
certain restrictions, a debtor in bankruptcy has the right to assume or reject its unexpired leases and executory contracts. In the
context of integrated master leases such as ours, our tenants in bankruptcy would be required to assume or reject the master lease as
a whole, rather than deciding on a property by property basis. 
Our outpatient medical portfolio is primarily self-managed and consists principally of multi-tenant properties leased to health
care providers. Our leases typically include increasers and some form of operating expense reimbursement by the tenant. As of
December 31, 2020, 77% of our portfolio included leases with full pass through, 20% with a partial expense reimbursement
(modified gross) and 3% with no expense reimbursement (gross). Our outpatient medical leases are non-cancellable operating
leases that have a weighted-average remaining term of six years at December 31, 2020 and are often credit enhanced by security
deposits, guarantees and/or letters of credit.
4
Construction  We provide for the construction of properties for tenants primarily as part of long-term operating leases. We
capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds used for the construction of properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is
based upon the amount advanced during the construction period using the rate of interest that approximates our company-wide cost
of financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. The construction period commences upon funding and
terminates upon the earlier of the completion of the applicable property or the end of a specified period. During the construction
period, we advance funds to the tenants in accordance with agreed upon terms and conditions which require, among other things,
periodic site visits by a company representative. During the construction period, we generally require an additional credit
enhancement in the form of payment and performance bonds and/or completion guarantees. At December 31, 2020, we had
outstanding construction investments of $487,742,000 and were committed to provide additional funds of approximately
$622,108,000 to complete construction for investment properties. We also provide for construction loans which, depending on the
terms and conditions, could be treated as loans, real property or investments in unconsolidated entities. 
Loans  Our real estate loans are typically structured to provide us with interest income, principal amortization and transaction
fees. Real estate loans consist of mortgage loans and other real estate loans which are primarily collateralized by a first, second or
third mortgage lien, a leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment of the partnership interest in the related properties, corporate
guarantees and/or personal guarantees. Non-real estate loans are generally corporate loans with no real estate backing. At
December 31, 2020, we had outstanding loans, net of allowances, of $683,641,000 with an interest yield of approximately 7.7% per
annum. Our yield on loans depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, average principal amount
outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate adjustments. The loans outstanding at December 31, 2020 are generally
subject to one to 15-year terms with principal amortization schedules and/or balloon payments of the outstanding principal balances
at the end of the term.
Investments in Unconsolidated Entities Investments in entities that we do not consolidate but for which we can exercise
significant influence over operating and financial policies are reported under the equity method of accounting. Our investments in
unconsolidated entities generally represent interests ranging from 10% to 65% in real estate assets. Under the equity method of
accounting, our share of the investee’s earnings or losses is included in our consolidated results of operations. The initial carrying
value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based on the amount paid to purchase the entity interest inclusive of transaction
costs. We evaluate our equity method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair value of the equity
method investment to its carrying value. When we determine a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its
carrying value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded. 
In Substance Real Estate Additionally, we provide loans to third parties for the acquisition, development and construction of real
estate. Under these arrangements, it is possible that we will participate in the expected residual profits of the project through the
sale, refinancing or acquisition of the property. We evaluate the characteristics of each arrangement, including its risks and rewards,
to determine whether they are more similar to those associated with a loan or an investment in real estate. Arrangements with
characteristics implying real estate joint ventures are treated as in substance real estate investments, accounted for using the equity
method, and are presented as investments in unconsolidated entities. We have made loans totaling $333,934,000 related to eight
properties as of December 31, 2020, which are classified as in substance real estate investments.
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements are in conformity with U.S general accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) and
include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint venture entities that we control, through voting rights or other
means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
At inception of joint venture transactions, we identify entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting
rights (“variable interest entities” or “VIEs”) and determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations.
A VIE is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial
interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional subordinated financial
support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary. Accounting Standards
Codification Topic 810, "Consolidations", requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to determining whether or not a
VIE will need to be consolidated. This evaluation is based on an enterprise’s ability to direct and influence the activities of a VIE
that most significantly impact that entity’s economic performance.
For investments in joint ventures, U.S. GAAP may preclude consolidation by the sole general partner in certain circumstances
based on the type of rights held by the limited partner(s). We assess the limited partners’ rights and their impact on our
consolidation conclusions, and we reassess if there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited
partners, the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership of limited partnership interests, or there is an increase or
decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of managing members of
limited liability companies.
5
Borrowing Policies
We utilize a combination of debt and equity to fund investments. Generally, we intend to issue unsecured, fixed-rate public debt
with long-term maturities to approximate the maturities on our triple-net leases and investment strategy. For short-term purposes,
we may borrow on our primary unsecured credit facility or issue commercial paper. We replace these borrowings with long-term
capital such as senior unsecured notes or common stock. When terms are deemed favorable, we may invest in properties subject to
existing mortgage indebtedness. In addition, we may obtain secured financing for unleveraged properties in which we have
invested or may refinance properties acquired on a leveraged basis. In certain agreements with our lenders, we are subject to
restrictions with respect to secured and unsecured indebtedness.
Competition
We compete with other real estate investment trusts, real estate partnerships, private equity and hedge fund investors, banks,
insurance companies, finance/investment companies, government-sponsored agencies, taxable and tax-exempt bond funds, health
care operators, developers and other investors in the acquisition, development, leasing and financing of health care and seniors
housing properties. We compete for investments based on a number of factors including relationships, certainty of execution,
investment structures and underwriting criteria. Our ability to successfully compete is impacted by economic and demographic
trends, availability of acceptable investment opportunities, our ability to negotiate beneficial investment terms, availability and cost
of capital, construction and renovation costs and applicable laws and regulations.
The operators/tenants of our properties compete with properties that provide comparable services in the local markets.
Operators/tenants compete for patients and residents based on a number of factors including quality of care, reputation, physical
appearance of properties, location, services offered, family preferences (including a preference for home health services instead of
residing in one of our communities), physicians, staff and price. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, seniors housing operators
have experienced broad-based occupancy declines and as a result, we expect competition to increase in 2021 and beyond as
operators attempt to fill unoccupied units. We also face competition from other health care facilities for tenants, such as physicians
and other health care providers that provide comparable facilities and services.
For additional information on the risks associated with our business, please see “Item 1A — Risk Factors” of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.
Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG")
We are committed to operating in a responsible, transparent and sustainable manner. Our leadership and Board of Directors
(through the Nominating and Governance Committee), oversee and advance our ESG initiatives. They recognize that focusing on
ESG engagement, integration and impact benefit our stakeholders and are fundamental to our business. Our corporate responsibility
and sustainability strategy is focused on adopting the best ESG practices across our business and we were recognized for our
leadership in this space over the past year in the following ways:
•Named by S&P Global in collaboration with RobecoSAM for the third consecutive year in the 2020 edition of The
Sustainability Yearbook;
•Named to top 20 percent of Newsweek’s America’s Most Responsible Companies list for the second consecutive year;
•Named to Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s 21st annual 100 Best Corporate Citizens list for the second consecutive year;
•Named to 2020 Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the third consecutive year and the North American Index for the
fifth consecutive year;
•Recognized on Management band level with a “B” score by CDP for taking coordinated action on climate issues;
•Recognized as Energy Star Partner of the Year for the second time;
•Listed on the FTSE4Good Index since 2012;
•Achieved Gold Level 2020 Green Lease Leader status by the Institute for Market Transformation and the U.S. Department
of Energy’s Better Buildings Alliance, after several prior years of repeated recognition;
•Named to the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index for the second consecutive year; and
•Named to the Workplace Health Achievement Index by the American Heart Association for the third consecutive year.
Environmental We strive to reduce our environmental impact by increasing energy and water efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas
emissions, investing in projects that reduce energy and water consumption that meet our rate of return thresholds, and focusing on
the environmental aspects within our supply chain. After several years of portfolio and program evolution, along with our increased
ability to collect data in partnership with our operators and tenants, our property-level sustainability dataset (energy, GHG, water,
and waste) is evolving to become a set of tools for benchmarking. Our self-managed Outpatient Medical portfolio is benchmarked
in EPA ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager (ESPM) and we regularly engage with our operators on
6
Energy Star, utility bill aggregators, utilities, and others to add to our number of ESPM benchmarked properties throughout our
portfolio. As a result, in 2019 we reset and launched new environmental goals that provide a broader and more inclusive
representation of our portfolio. We are targeting a 10% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and energy and water usage by 2025
from our 2018 baseline. As of the end of 2019, we reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 8.5%, energy consumption by 2.1% and
water consumption by 5%.
We have comprehensive employee, tenant and vendor engagement programs in place focused on operational strategies to drive
energy and water efficiency. In 2019 and 2020, we issued guidance with accompanying training to assist our managers and
operators to successfully benchmark their buildings and to engage our tenants to improve energy and water efficiency as well as
increase their recycling diversion rates. We continue to not only monitor adherence and compliance with this guidance in
connection with our sustainability reporting, but also work to expand its utilization throughout our portfolio.
In December 2019, we issued our inaugural green bond of $500,000,000 of 2.700% notes due 2027. The net proceeds from the
offering will be used to fund renewable energy, water conservation, energy efficiency and green building projects. We are the first
healthcare REIT to successfully complete a green bond issuance.
We understand that as we continue to make our operations and buildings more sustainable, we also have a responsibility to
effectuate the same in our supply chain and our purchasing decisions. We developed a Supplier ESG Survey that was delivered to
our highest spend national accounts, which we analyzed and leveraged for compliance and opportunity engagement with suppliers.
Additionally, we partner with suppliers that offer take back programs for their products, look for the ENERGY STAR label when
purchasing eligible items, seek to purchase office supply products that contain recycled content and purchase paper products that
are either Forest Stewardship Council or Sustainable Forestry Initiative certified.
Social We have a number of social initiatives in place that are focused on fostering a more diverse workforce, giving back to our
communities and ensuring the health and well-being of our employees, tenants and residents. Over the past six years, since we
began reporting the impact of our charitable contributions through programs such as the Welltower Charitable Foundation, we have
donated over $40 million to charitable initiatives related to aging, health care, education and the arts.
We value and are committed to our employees. In addition to enhancing progressive talent attraction, development programs and
mandatory training for all employees, we have reinforced our already strong commitment to diversity and inclusion through our
Diversity Council and the launch of seven new associated ENGs in 2020. These, taken together with other employee initiatives,
such as tailored messaging, training and discussions on equality and understanding, support our efforts to compete for and foster
talent and inclusiveness in an ever changing workforce.
Governance We have adopted corporate governance practices that meet the dynamic needs of the corporate governance
environment. In 2020, we announced changes and appointments to our Board of Directors, resulting in (1) 80% of our Director
positions being held by racially and ethnically diverse minorities and women, (2) 50% of our Director positions being held by
women, (3) 40% of our Board committees being led by women and (4) the separation of the roles of CEO and Board Chair
resulting in the appointment of an independent and racially diverse Chair of the Board. We annually review our policies and
procedures and strive to lead through advancement and adherence to impactful areas, such as with our 2020 revision to our human
rights policy which included approval by the Board of Directors, no tolerance for modern slavery, and commitment to fair and
equal compensation for its employees. Additionally, we improved our already high CDP, Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI),
ISS, ISS-ESG, Sustainalytics and Vigeo Eiris scores through enhanced tracking and reporting.
Additional information regarding our ESG programs and initiatives is available in our 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility
Report (located on our website at www.welltower.com). Information on our website, including our Corporate Social Responsibility
Report or sections thereof, is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.
Human Capital
Our employees are our greatest asset. As of December 31, 2020, we had 423 employees (406 located in United States, ten in the
United Kingdom, five in Canada and 2 in Luxembourg). We are committed to the success of our people and the unique combination
of skills and experiences they bring to achieving our mission.
Employee Development Programs and Performance Management Development through the talent pipeline, recognizing and
rewarding performance and providing opportunities for continued growth are the cornerstones of our Human Capital strategy. We
offer employees resources, trainings and tools designed to develop future leaders, advance careers and attract and retain talent
including but not limited to our rotational associate program, formal mentorship program, manager development training, skill
development courses and education assistance. We sustain a high-performance culture by measuring performance, recognizing
employee achievements and identifying areas of development and professional growth.
Compensation and Benefits In addition to salary, our compensation and benefits programs include annual short term incentive
bonuses, long-term incentive stock plans, a 401(k) plan, an employee stock purchase plan, healthcare and insurance benefits, health
savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, maternity and caregiver leave, senior wellness leave, employee assistance
programs, tuition assistance and health and wellness reimbursement programs, among many others. We annually
7
evaluate and benchmark the consistency and competitiveness of our compensation and benefits programs to ensure fair pay
practices that reward performance and support the needs of our employees. We also regularly review our compensation practices,
both in terms of our overall workforce and by individual employee, to ensure our compensation and benefits programs are fair and
equitable.
Health, Safety and Wellness The success of our business is fundamentally connected to the safety and well-being of our
employees, tenants and visitors. We provide our employees and their families with access to a variety of innovative, flexible and
convenient health and wellness programs that support physical, mental and financial well-being. During most of 2020, a large
majority of our workforce worked remotely and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. We have increased leadership
updates and other communication, utilizing many forms of technology, to keep employees engaged and informed while out of the
office. Additionally, we instituted safety protocols and procedures for essential employees who continued to work in our offices or
on-site to manage our properties. We provided access to personal protective equipment, enhanced cleaning and sanitation
procedures and required temperature and symptom monitoring. We measure success through monitoring the number of employees
that received safety training, measuring progress towards our goal of zero lost time for incidents, and aligning with goals of our
signature wellness program ("WELL+Being").
Credit Concentrations  Please see Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements.
Geographic Concentrations  Please see “Item 2 – Properties” below and Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements.
Certain Government Regulations
United States
Health Law Matters — Generally
Typically, operators of seniors housing facilities do not receive significant funding from government programs and are largely
subject to state laws, as opposed to federal laws. Operators of long-term/post-acute care facilities and hospitals do receive
significant funding from government programs, and these facilities are subject to extensive regulation, including federal and state
laws covering the type and quality of medical and/or nursing care provided, ancillary services (e.g., respiratory, occupational,
physical and infusion therapies), qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing staff, the adequacy of the physical plant
and equipment, reimbursement and rate setting and operating policies. In addition, as described below, operators of these facilities
are subject to extensive laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including, but not limited to, the federal
Anti-Kickback Statute (“AKS”), the federal Stark Law (“Stark Law”), and the federal False Claims Act (“FCA”), as well as
comparable state laws. Hospitals, physician group practice clinics, and other health care providers that operate in our portfolio are
subject to extensive federal, state, and local licensure, registration, certification, and inspection laws, regulations, and industry
standards, as well as other conditions of participation in federal and state government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid.
Further, operators of long-term care facilities are required to have in place compliance and ethics programs that meet the
requirements of federal laws and regulations. Our tenants’ failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in,
among other things: loss of accreditation; denial of reimbursement; imposition of fines; suspension, decertification, or exclusion
from federal and state health care programs; loss of license; or closure of the facility. See risk factors “The requirements of, or
changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare or Medicaid, could have a material adverse effect on our
obligors’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors’ ability to meet their
obligations to us” and “Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure,
certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely affect such operators’ or tenants’ operations, which
could adversely affect our operators’ and tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us” in “Item 1A – Risk Factors”
below. Moreover, in light of certain arrangements that Welltower may pursue with healthcare entities who are directly subject to
laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, and given that certain of our arrangements are structured under the
provisions of the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 ("RIDEA"), certain health care fraud and abuse
laws and data privacy laws could apply directly to Welltower. See risk factor "We assume operational and legal risks with respect to
our properties managed in RIDEA structures that could have a material adverse effect on our business results of operations, and
financial condition" in "Item 1A - Risk Factors" below.
Licensing and Certification
The primary regulations that affect long-term and post-acute care facilities are state licensing and registration laws. For example,
certain health care facilities are subject to a variety of licensure and certificate of need (“CON”) laws and regulations. Where
applicable, CON laws generally require, among other requirements, that a facility demonstrate the need for (1) constructing a new
facility, (2) adding beds or expanding an existing facility, (3) investing in major capital equipment or adding new services, (4)
changing the ownership or control of an existing licensed facility or (5) terminating services that have been previously approved
through the CON process. Certain state CON laws and regulations may restrict the ability of operators to add new properties or
expand an existing facility’s size or services. In addition, CON laws may constrain the ability of an operator to transfer
responsibility for operating a particular facility to a new operator.
8
With respect to licensure, generally our long-term/post-acute care facilities are required to be licensed and certified for
participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. The failure of our operators to maintain or
renew any required license or regulatory approval as well as the failure of our operators to correct serious deficiencies identified in
a compliance survey could require those operators to discontinue operations at a property. In addition, if a property is found to be
out of compliance with Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state health care program conditions of participation, the property
operator may be excluded from participating in those government health care programs.
Reimbursement
The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care facilities continue to evolve. Federal and state authorities have
considered and implemented and may continue seeking to implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies, including
value-based reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact health care property operations. Likewise, third-party payors
may continue imposing greater controls on operators, including through changes in reimbursement rates and fee structures. The
impact of any such changes, if implemented, may result in a material adverse effect on our portfolio. No assurance can be given
that current revenue sources or levels will be maintained. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that payments under a government
health care program are currently, or will be in the future, sufficient to fully reimburse the property operators for their operating and
capital expenses.
•Seniors Housing Facilities  The majority of the revenues received by the operators of U.S. seniors housing facilities are from
private pay sources. The remaining revenue source is primarily Medicaid provided under state waiver programs for home and
community-based care. There can be no guarantee that a state Medicaid program operating pursuant to a waiver will be able to
maintain its waiver status. Rates paid by self-pay residents are set by the facilities and are determined by local market
conditions and operating costs. Generally, facilities receive a higher payment per day for a private pay resident than for a
Medicaid beneficiary who requires a comparable level of care. The level of Medicaid reimbursement varies from state to
state. Thus, the revenues generated by operators of our assisted living facilities may be adversely affected by payor mix, acuity
level, changes in Medicaid eligibility and reimbursement levels.
•Long-Term/Post-Acute Care Facilities  The majority of the revenues received by the operators of these facilities are from the
Medicare and Medicaid programs, with the balance representing reimbursement payments from private payors and patients.
Consequently, changes in federal or state reimbursement policies may adversely affect an operator’s ability to cover its
expenses, including our rent or debt service. Long-term/post-acute care facilities are subject to periodic pre- and post-payment
reviews and other audits by federal and state authorities. A review or audit of a property operator’s claims could result in
recoupments, denials or delay of payments in the future. Due to the significant judgments and estimates inherent in payor
settlement accounting, no assurance can be given as to the adequacy of any reserves maintained by our property operators to
cover potential adjustments to reimbursements or to cover settlements made to payors.
◦Medicare Reimbursement Generally, long-term/post-acute care facilities are reimbursed by Medicare under prospective
payment systems, which generally provide reimbursement based upon a predetermined fixed amount per episode of care
and are updated by CMS, an agency of the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) annually. There is a risk
under these payment systems that costs will exceed the fixed payments, or that payments may be set below the costs to
provide certain items and services. Further, there is risk that Medicare Skilled Nursing Facility ("SNF") payment reforms
may impact our tenants and operators. In addition, the HHS Office of Inspector General has released recommendations to
address SNF billing practices and Medicare payment rates. If followed, these recommendations regarding SNF payment
reform may impact our tenants and operators.
◦Medicaid Reimbursement  Many states reimburse SNFs using fixed daily rates, which are applied prospectively based on
patient acuity and the historical costs incurred in providing patient care. In most states, Medicaid does not fully reimburse
the cost of providing services. Certain states are attempting to slow the rate of Medicaid growth by freezing rates or
restricting eligibility and benefits. In addition, Medicaid reimbursement rates may decline if state revenues in a particular
state are not sufficient to fund budgeted expenditures.
•Medicare Reimbursement for Physicians, Hospital Outpatient Departments (“HOPDs”), and Ambulatory Surgical Centers
(“ASCs”) Changes in reimbursement to physicians, HOPDs and ASCs may further affect our tenants and operators. Generally,
Medicare reimburses physicians under the Physician Fee Schedule, while HOPDs and ASCs are reimbursed under prospective
payment systems. The Physician Fee Schedule and the HOPD and ASC prospective payment systems are updated annually by
CMS. These annual Medicare payment regulations have resulted in lower net pay increases than providers of those services
have often expected. In addition, the Medicare and Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015
(“MACRA”) includes payment reductions for providers who do not meet government quality standards. The implementation
of pay-for-quality models like those required under MACRA has the potential to produce funding disparities that could
adversely impact some provider tenants in outpatient medical buildings and other health care properties. Changes in Medicare
Advantage plan payments may also indirectly affect our operators and tenants that contract with Medicare Advantage plans.
•Health Reform Laws  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of
2010 (collectively, the “Health Reform Laws”) dramatically altered how health care is delivered and reimbursed in
9
the U.S. and contained various provisions, including Medicaid expansion and the establishment of Health Insurance Exchanges
(“HIEs”) providing subsidized health insurance, that may directly impact us or the operators and tenants of our properties. The
status of the Health Reform Laws may be subject to change as a result of political, legislative, regulatory and administrative
developments and judicial proceedings. While legislative attempts to completely repeal the Health Reform Laws have been
unsuccessful to date, there have been multiple attempts to repeal or amend the Health Reform Laws through legislative action
and legal challenges. During the Trump Administration, the former president and U.S. Congress sought to modify, repeal or
otherwise invalidate all or portions of the Health Reform Laws. For example, in December 2017, the U.S. Congress passed the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which included a provision that eliminates the penalty under the Health Reform Laws’ individual
mandate, effective in 2019, and could impact the future state of the HIEs established by the Health Reform Laws. In December
2018, a federal district court in Texas ruled the individual mandate was unconstitutional and could not be severed from the
Health Reform Laws. As a result, the court ruled the remaining provisions of the Health Reform Laws were also invalid,
though the court declined to issue a preliminary injunction with respect to the Health Reform Laws. In December 2019, the
Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals agreed that the individual mandate was unconstitutional, but remanded the case back to the
district court to reassess how much of the Health Reform Laws would be damaged without the individual mandate provision,
and if the individual mandate could indeed be severed. The Fifth Circuit's decision was appealed to the Supreme Court of the
United States, which granted certiorari on these issues and conducted an oral argument in November 2020. This litigation is
still ongoing, but places great uncertainty upon the longevity and nature of the Health Reform Laws moving forward. There is
also uncertainty with respect to the impact the Biden Administration and the new U.S. Congress may have on health reform
including through new legislative, executive order, or regulatory efforts and any changes will likely take time to unfold, and
could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for health care items and services covered by plans that were authorized
by the Health Reform Laws. We cannot predict whether the existing Health Reform Laws, or future health care reform
legislation, executive order, or regulatory changes, will have a material impact on our operators’ or tenants’ property or
business.
Fraud & Abuse Enforcement
Long-term/post-acute care facilities (and seniors housing facilities that receive Medicaid payments) are subject to federal, state,
and local laws, regulations, and applicable guidance that govern the operations and financial and other arrangements that may be
entered into by health care providers. Certain of these laws, such as the AKS and Stark Law, prohibit direct or indirect payments of
any kind for the purpose of inducing or encouraging the referral of patients for medical products or services reimbursable by
government health care programs. Other government health program laws require providers to furnish only medically necessary
services and submit to the government valid and accurate statements for each service. Our operators and tenants that receive
payments from federal health care programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, are subject to substantial financial penalties under the
Civil Monetary Penalties Act and the FCA upon a finding of noncompliance with such laws. In addition, states may also have
separate false claims acts, which, among other things, generally prohibit health care providers from filing false claims or making
false statements to receive payments. Federal and state FCAs contain "whistleblower" provisions that permit private individuals to
bring health care fraud enforcement claims on behalf of the government. Still other laws require providers to comply with a variety
of safety, health and other requirements relating to the condition of the licensed property and the quality of care provided. Sanctions
for violations of these laws, regulations and other applicable guidance may include, but are not limited to, criminal and/or civil
penalties and fines, loss of licensure, immediate termination of government payments, exclusion from any government health care
program, damage assessments and imprisonment. In certain circumstances, violation of these rules (such as those prohibiting
abusive and fraudulent behavior) with respect to one property may subject other facilities under common control or ownership to
sanctions, including exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as other government health care
programs. In the ordinary course of its business, a property operator is regularly subjected to inquiries, investigations and audits by
the federal and state agencies that oversee these laws and regulations.
Prosecutions, investigations or whistleblower actions could have a material adverse effect on a property operator’s liquidity,
financial condition, and operations, which could adversely affect the ability of the operator to meet its financial obligations to us. In
addition, government investigations and enforcement actions brought against the health care industry have increased dramatically
over the past several years and are expected to continue. The costs for an operator of a health care property associated with both
defending such enforcement actions and the undertakings in settling these actions can be substantial and could have a material
adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us. In addition, Welltower could potentially be directly subject
to these health care fraud and abuse laws, as well as potential investigation or enforcement, as a result of our RIDEA-structured
arrangements, and certain collaboration or other arrangements we may pursue with stakeholders who are directly subject to these
laws.
Federal and State Data Privacy and Security Laws
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), as amended by the Health Information Technology
for Economic and Clinical Health Act, and numerous other state and federal laws govern the collection, security, dissemination,
use, access to and confidentiality of personal information, including individually identifiable health
10
information. Violations of these laws may result in substantial civil and/or criminal fines and penalties. The costs to a business such
as ours or to an operator of a health care property associated with developing and maintaining programs and systems to comply
with data privacy and security laws, defending against privacy and security related claims or enforcement actions and paying any
assessed fines, can be substantial. Moreover, such costs could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its
obligations to us. Finally, data privacy and security laws and regulations continue to develop, including with regard to HIPAA and
U.S. state privacy laws such as the California Consumer Privacy Act and the new California Privacy Rights Act that will go into
effect in 2023. As we use data to better inform our investments and the efficacy of care in our communities, these developments
may add potential uncertainty towards compliance obligations, business operations or transactions that depend on data. These new
privacy laws may create restrictions or requirements in our, our operators' and other business partners' use, sharing and securing of
data. New privacy and security laws could require substantial investment in resources to comply with regulatory changes as privacy
and security laws proliferate in divergent ways or impose additional obligations.
United Kingdom
In the U.K., care home services are principally regulated by the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (as amended) and other
regulations. This legislation subjects service providers to a number of legally binding “Fundamental Standards” and requires,
amongst other things, that all persons carrying out “Regulated Activities” in the U.K., and the managers of such persons, be
registered. Providers of care home services are also subject (as data controllers) to laws governing their use of personal data
(including in relation to their employees, clients and recipients of their services). These laws currently take the form of the U.K.’s
Data Protection Act 2018 and the U.K. General Data Protection Regulation (collectively “U.K. DP Laws”). U.K. DP Laws impose
a significant number of obligations on controllers with the potential for fines of up to 4% of annual worldwide turnover or €17.50
million, whichever is greater. Entities incorporated in or carrying on a business in the U.K., as well as individuals residing in the
U.K., are also subject to the U.K. Bribery Act 2010. The U.K. has national minimum wage legislation with a maximum fine for
non-payment of £20,000 per worker and employers who fail to pay will be banned from being a company director for up to 15
years. In addition, there is a bill currently going through the U.K. Parliament which will require a care home provider, where
entering into a contract for the provision of healthcare or social care services with a local public authority, to enter into mandatory
contractual terms to provide the local public authority with evidence that it pays the national minimum wage to all of its employees
engaged in the provision of services for which the provider has contracted for (e.g., a national minimum wage record). Further, the
Working Time and Holiday Pay Bill 2019-2021 is currently going through the U.K. Parliament, which makes provision for the
expiration of the Working Time Regulations 1998, provides for additional regulations governing working time and makes
provisions for holiday pay for employees.
The U.K. exited from the EU (“Brexit”) on January 31, 2020. Prior to the end of the Brexit Transition Period on December 31,
2020, the EU and U.K. agreed to a Trade and Cooperation on December 24, 2020, which has been approved by the U.K. Parliament
to enter into force, which is currently pending. The impact of Brexit on the U.K. health and care workforce will depend on future
migration policy and the barriers or incentives to live in the U.K.
Canada
Senior living residences in Canada are provincially regulated. Within each province, there are different categories for senior
living residences that are generally based on the level of care sought and/or required by a resident (e.g. assisted or retirement living,
senior living residences, residential care, long-term care). In some of these categories and depending on the province, residences
may be government funded, or the individual residents may be eligible for a government subsidy, while other residences are
exclusively private-pay. The governing legislation and regulations vary by province, but generally the object of the laws is to set
licensing requirements and minimum standards for senior living residences, and regulate operations. These laws empower
regulators in each province to take a variety of steps to ensure compliance, conduct inspections, issue reports and generally regulate
the industry.
Our operations in Canada are subject to privacy legislation, including, in certain provinces, privacy laws specifically related to
personal health information. Although the obligations of senior living residences in the various provinces differ, they all include the
obligation to protect personal information. Under some of these laws, notification to the regulator in the event of an actual or
suspected privacy breach is mandatory. The powers of privacy regulators and penalties for violations of privacy law vary according
to the applicable law or are left to the courts. Senior living residences may also be subject to laws pertaining to residential tenancy,
provincial and/or municipal laws applicable to fire safety, food services, zoning, occupational health and safety, public health and
the provision of community health care and funded long-term/post-acute care.
Taxation
The following summary of the taxation of the company and the material U.S. federal income tax consequences to the holders of
our debt and equity securities is for general information only and is not tax advice. This summary does not address all aspects of
taxation that may be relevant to certain types of holders of stock or securities (including, but not limited to, insurance
11
companies, tax-exempt entities, financial institutions or broker-dealers, persons holding shares of common stock as part of a
hedging, integrated conversion, or constructive sale transaction or a straddle, traders in securities that use a mark-to-market method
of accounting for their securities, investors in pass-through entities and foreign corporations and persons who are not citizens or
residents of the United States).
This summary does not discuss all of the aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be relevant to you in light of your
particular investment or other circumstances. In addition, this summary does not discuss any state or local income taxation or
foreign income taxation or other foreign tax consequences. This summary is based on current U.S. federal income tax laws. A
discussion of the potential implications to the Company of the Tax Act is provided at the end of this summary below. Subsequent
developments in U.S. federal income tax law, including changes in law or differing interpretations, which may be applied
retroactively, could have a material effect on the U.S. federal income tax consequences of purchasing, owning and disposing of our
securities as set forth in this summary. Before you purchase our securities, you should consult your own tax advisor regarding the
particular U.S. federal, state, local, foreign and other tax consequences of acquiring, owning and selling our securities.
General
We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (a “REIT”) commencing with our first taxable year. We intend to continue
to operate in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT, but there is no guarantee that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for
subsequent years. Qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet a variety of qualification tests imposed
under U.S. federal income tax law with respect to our income, assets, distributions and share ownership, as discussed below under
“Qualification as a REIT.” There can be no assurance that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT.
In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, in general, we will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on that portion of our
REIT taxable income or capital gain that is distributed to stockholders. We may, however, be subject to tax at normal corporate
rates on any taxable income or capital gain not distributed. If we elect to retain and pay income tax on our net capital gain,
stockholders would be taxed on their proportionate share of our undistributed net capital gain and would receive a refundable credit
for their share of any taxes paid by us on such gain.
Despite the REIT election, we may be subject to U.S. federal income and excise tax as follows:
•To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our “REIT
taxable income,” as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates;
•If we have net income from the sale or other disposition of “foreclosure property” that is held primarily for sale to customers
in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, such income will be taxed at
the highest corporate rate;
•Any net income from prohibited transactions (which are, in general, sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for
sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, other than dispositions of foreclosure property) will be subject to a
100% tax;
•If we fail to satisfy either the 75% or 95% gross income tests (as discussed below), but nonetheless maintain our
qualification as a REIT because certain other requirements are met, we will be subject to a 100% tax on an amount equal to
(1) the gross income attributable to the greater of (i) 75% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income
for purposes of the 75% gross income test (discussed below) or (ii) 95% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying
gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test (discussed below) multiplied by (2) a fraction intended to reflect our
profitability;
•If we fail to distribute during each year at least the sum of (1) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for the year, (2) 95% of our
REIT capital gain net income for such year (other than capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on) and (3) any
undistributed taxable income from preceding periods, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax on the excess of such required
distribution over amounts actually distributed; and
•We will be subject to a 100% tax on certain amounts from certain transactions involving our “taxable REIT subsidiaries” that
are not conducted on an arm’s length basis. See “Qualification as a REIT - Investments in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries.
If we acquire any assets from a corporation, which is or has been a “C” corporation, in a carryover basis transaction (including
where a “C” corporation elects REIT status), we could be liable for specified liabilities that are inherited from the “C” corporation.
A “C” corporation is generally defined as a corporation that is required to pay full corporate level U.S. federal income tax. If we
recognize gain on the disposition of the assets during the five-year period beginning on the date on which the assets were acquired
by us, then, to the extent of the assets’ “built-in gain” (e.g., the excess of the fair market value of the asset over the adjusted tax
basis of the asset, in each case determined as of the beginning of the five-year period), we will be subject to tax on the gain at the
highest regular corporate rate applicable. The results described in this paragraph with respect to the recognition of built-in gain
assume that the “C” corporation did not make and was not treated as making an election to treat the built-in gain assets as sold to an
unrelated party. For those properties that are subject to the built-in gains tax, the potential
12
amount of built-in gains tax will be an additional factor when considering a possible sale of the properties within the five-year
period beginning on the date on which the properties were acquired by us. See Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for
additional information regarding the built-in gains tax.
Qualification as a REIT
A REIT is defined as a corporation, trust or association:
1.which is managed by one or more trustees or directors;
2.the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest;
3.which would be taxable as a domestic corporation but for the U.S. federal income tax law relating to REITs;
4.which is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company;
5.the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons in each taxable year of the REIT except for its first
taxable year;
6.not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is owned during the last half of each taxable year, excluding
its first taxable year, directly, indirectly or constructively, by or for five or fewer individuals (which includes certain
entities) (the "Five or Fewer Requirement"); and
7. which meets certain income and asset tests described below.
Conditions (1) to (4), inclusive, must be met during the entire taxable year and condition (5) must be met during at least 335 days
of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. For purposes of conditions
(5) and (6), pension funds and certain other tax-exempt entities are treated as individuals, subject to a “look-through” exception in
the case of condition (6).
Based on publicly available information, we believe we have satisfied the share ownership requirements set forth in (5) and
(6) above. In addition, Article VI of our by-laws provides for restrictions regarding ownership and transfer of shares. These
restrictions are intended to assist us in continuing to satisfy the share ownership requirements described in (5) and (6) above but
may not ensure that we will, in all cases, be able to satisfy such requirements.
We have complied with, and will continue to comply with, regulatory rules to send annual letters to certain of our stockholders
requesting information regarding the actual ownership of our stock. If, despite sending the annual letters, we do not know, or after
exercising reasonable diligence would not have known, whether we failed to meet the Five or Fewer Requirement, we will be
treated as having met the Five or Fewer Requirement. If we fail to comply with these regulatory rules, we will be subject to a
monetary penalty. If our failure to comply were due to intentional disregard of the requirement, the penalty would be increased.
However, if our failure to comply were due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, no penalty would be imposed.
We may own a number of properties through wholly owned subsidiaries. A corporation will qualify as a “qualified REIT
subsidiary” if 100% of its stock is owned by a REIT, and the REIT does not elect to treat the subsidiary as a taxable REIT
subsidiary. A “qualified REIT subsidiary” will not be treated as a separate corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and all
assets, liabilities and items of income, deductions and credits of a “qualified REIT subsidiary” will be treated as assets, liabilities
and items (as the case may be) of the REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A “qualified REIT subsidiary” is not subject to
U.S. federal income tax, and our ownership of the voting stock of a qualified REIT subsidiary will not violate the restrictions
against ownership of securities of any one issuer which constitute more than 10% of the value or total voting power of such issuer
or more than 5% of the value of our total assets, as described below under “- Asset Tests.”
If we invest in an entity treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be deemed to own a proportionate
share of the entity’s assets. Likewise, we will be treated as receiving our share of the income and loss of the entity, and the gross
income will retain the same character in our hands as it has in the hands of the entity. These “look-through” rules apply for
purposes of the income tests and assets tests described below.
The deduction of business interest is limited to 30% (50% in the case of taxable years beginning in 2019 or 2020) of adjusted
taxable income, which may limit the deductibility of interest expense by us, our taxable REIT subsidiaries, or our joint venture and
partnership arrangements. A “real property trade or business” may irrevocably elect out of the applicability of the limitation, but if
it does so it must use the less favorable alternative depreciation system to depreciate real property used in the trade or business.
Regulations provide guidance on how to allocate interest deductions among multiple trades or businesses and contain special rules,
including a safe harbor, regarding the allocation of a REIT’s interest deductions to a “real property trade or business.”
Income Tests  There are two separate percentage tests relating to our sources of gross income that we must satisfy each taxable
year:
13
•At least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) generally
must be directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from “rents from real property,” other income from investments
relating to real property or mortgages on real property or certain income from qualified temporary investments.
•At least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) generally
must be directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from any of the sources qualifying for the 75% gross income test and
from dividends (including dividends from taxable REIT subsidiaries) and interest.
Income from hedging and foreign currency transactions is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests if certain
requirements are met but otherwise will constitute gross income which does not qualify under the 95% or 75% gross income tests.
Rents received by us will qualify as “rents from real property” for purposes of satisfying the gross income tests for a REIT only if
several conditions are met:
•The amount of rent must not be based in whole or in part on the income or profits of any person, although rents generally
will not be excluded merely because they are based on a fixed percentage or percentages of receipts or sales.
•Rents received from a tenant will not qualify as rents from real property if the REIT, or an owner of 10% or more of the
REIT, also directly or constructively owns 10% or more of the tenant, unless the tenant is our taxable REIT subsidiary and
certain other requirements are met with respect to the real property being rented.
•If rent attributable to personal property leased in connection with a lease of real property is greater than 15% of the total rent
received under the lease, then the portion of rent attributable to such personal property will not qualify as “rents from real
property.”
•For rents to qualify as rents from real property, we generally must not furnish or render services to tenants, other than
through a taxable REIT subsidiary or an “independent contractor” from whom we derive no income, except that we may
directly provide services that are usually or customarily rendered in the geographic area in which the property is located in
connection with the rental of real property for occupancy only or are not otherwise considered rendered to the occupant for
his convenience.
•We may lease “qualified health care properties” on an arm’s-length basis to a taxable REIT subsidiary if the property is
operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an “independent contractor” and who is, or is related to a
person who is, actively engaged in the trade or business of operating health care facilities for any person unrelated to us or
our taxable REIT subsidiary (such person, an “eligible independent contractor”). If this is the case, the rent that the REIT
receives from the taxable REIT subsidiary generally will be treated as “rents from real property.” A “qualified health care
property” includes any real property and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital,
nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility
that extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients and is operated by a provider of such services that is eligible
for participation in the Medicare program with respect to such facility.
A REIT is permitted to render a de minimis amount of impermissible services to tenants and still treat amounts received with
respect to that property as rent from real property. The amount received or accrued by the REIT during the taxable year for the
impermissible services with respect to a property may not exceed 1% of all amounts received or accrued by the REIT directly or
indirectly from the property. The amount received for any service or management operation for this purpose shall be deemed to be
not less than 150% of the direct cost of the REIT in furnishing or rendering the service or providing the management or operation.
Furthermore, impermissible services may be furnished to tenants by a taxable REIT subsidiary subject to certain conditions, which
would permit us to still treat rents received with respect to the property as rent from real property.
The term “interest” generally does not include any amount if the determination of the amount depends in whole or in part on the
income or profits of any person, although an amount generally will not be excluded from the term “interest” solely by reason of
being based on a fixed percentage of receipts or sales.
If we fail to satisfy one or both of the 75% or 95% gross income tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a
REIT for such year if we are eligible for certain relief provisions provided by the Internal Revenue Code. These relief provisions
generally will be available if (1) following our identification of the failure, we file a schedule for such taxable year describing each
item of our gross income, and (2) the failure to meet such tests was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect. It is not
now possible to determine the circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions. If these relief
provisions apply, a 100% tax is imposed on an amount equal to (1) the gross income attributable to (i) 75% of our gross income
over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75% income test and (ii) 95% of our gross income over the amount
of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 95% income test, multiplied by (2) a fraction intended to reflect our profitability.
The Secretary of the Treasury is given broad authority to determine whether particular items of income or gain qualify under the
75% and 95% gross income tests and to exclude items from the measure of gross income for such purposes.
14
Asset Tests  Within 30 days after the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also satisfy several tests relating to the
nature and diversification of our assets determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. At least 75% of the
value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets (including interests in real property, interests in mortgages on real
property or on interests in real property, shares in other REITs and debt instruments issued by publicly offered REITs), cash, cash
items (including receivables arising in the ordinary course of our operation), government securities and qualified temporary
investments. Although the remaining 25% of our assets generally may be invested without restriction, we are prohibited from
owning securities representing more than 10% of either the vote (the “10% vote test”) or value (the “10% value test”) of the
outstanding securities of any issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary, another REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Further, no
more than 20% of our total assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (the “20% asset test”)
and no more than 5% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of any non-governmental issuer other than a
qualified REIT subsidiary (the “5% asset test”), another REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Each of the 10% vote test, the 10%
value test and the 20% and 5% asset tests must be satisfied at the end of each quarter. There are special rules which provide relief if
the value-related tests are not satisfied due to changes in the value of the assets of a REIT.
Certain items are excluded from the 10% value test, including: (1) straight debt securities meeting certain requirements; (2) any
loan to an individual or an estate; (3) any rental agreement described in Section 467 of the Internal Revenue Code, other than with a
“related person”; (4) any obligation to pay rents from real property; (5) certain securities issued by a state or any subdivision
thereof, the District of Columbia, a foreign government, or any political subdivision thereof, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
(6) any security issued by a REIT; and (7) any other arrangement that, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, is excepted
from the definition of security (“excluded securities”). If a REIT, or its taxable REIT subsidiary, holds (1) straight debt securities of
a corporate or partnership issuer and (2) securities of such issuer that are not excluded securities and have an aggregate value
greater than 1% of such issuer’s outstanding securities, the straight debt securities will be included in the 10% value test.
A REIT’s interest as a partner in a partnership is not treated as a security for purposes of applying the 10% value test to securities
issued by the partnership. Further, any debt instrument issued by a partnership that is not an excluded security will not be a security
for purposes of applying the 10% value test (1) to the extent of the REIT’s interest as a partner in the partnership or (2) if at least
75% of the partnership’s gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) would qualify for the 75% gross
income test. For purposes of the 10% value test, a REIT’s interest in a partnership’s assets is determined by the REIT’s
proportionate interest in any securities issued by the partnership (other than the excluded securities described in the preceding
paragraph).
If a REIT or its “qualified business unit” uses a foreign currency as its functional currency, the term “cash” includes such foreign
currency, but only to the extent such foreign currency is (i) held for use in the normal course of the activities of the REIT or
“qualified business unit” which give rise to items of income or gain that are included in the 95% and 75% gross income tests or are
directly related to acquiring or holding assets qualifying under the 75% asset test, and (ii) not held in connection with dealing or
engaging in substantial and regular trading in securities.
With respect to corrections of failures as to violations of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test or the 5% asset test, a REIT may
avoid disqualification as a REIT by disposing of sufficient assets to cure a violation due to the ownership of assets that do not
exceed the lesser of 1% of the REIT’s assets at the end of the relevant quarter or $10,000,000, provided that the disposition occurs
within six months following the last day of the quarter in which the REIT first identified the assets. For violations of any of the
REIT asset tests due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect that exceed the thresholds described in the preceding sentence, a
REIT can avoid disqualification as a REIT after the close of a taxable quarter by taking certain steps, including disposition of
sufficient assets within the six month period described above to meet the applicable asset test, paying a tax equal to the greater of
$50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the non-qualifying assets during the period of
time that the assets were held as non-qualifying assets and filing a schedule with the Internal Revenue Service that describes the
non-qualifying assets.
Investments in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries  REITs may own more than 10% of the voting power and value of securities in taxable
REIT subsidiaries. Unlike a qualified REIT subsidiary, other disregarded entity or partnership, the income and assets of a taxable
REIT subsidiary are not attributable to the REIT for purposes of satisfying the income and asset ownership requirements applicable
to REIT qualification. We and any taxable corporate entity in which we own an interest are allowed to jointly elect to treat such
entity as a “taxable REIT subsidiary.”
Certain of our subsidiaries have elected taxable REIT subsidiary status. Taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to full corporate
level U.S. federal taxation on their earnings but are permitted to engage in certain types of activities that cannot be performed
directly by REITs without jeopardizing their REIT status. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries will attempt to minimize the amount of
these taxes, but there can be no assurance whether or the extent to which measures taken to minimize taxes will be successful. To
the extent our taxable REIT subsidiaries are required to pay U.S. federal, state or local taxes, the cash available for distribution as
dividends to us from our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be reduced.
15
The Internal Revenue Service may redetermine amounts from transactions between a REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiary
where there is a lack of arm’s-length dealing between the parties. Any taxable income allocated to, or deductible expenses allocated
away, from a taxable REIT subsidiary would increase its tax liability. Further, certain amounts from certain transactions involving a
REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiaries could be subject to a 100% tax if not conducted on an arm’s length basis. Additional taxable
REIT subsidiary elections may be made in the future for additional entities in which we obtain an interest.
Annual Distribution Requirements  In order to avoid being taxed as a regular corporation, we are required to make distributions
(other than capital gain distributions) to our stockholders which qualify for the dividends paid deduction in an amount at least equal
to (1) the sum of (i) 90% of our “REIT taxable income” (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net
capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the after-tax net income, if any, from foreclosure property, minus (2) a portion of certain items of non-
cash income. These distributions must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if declared
before we timely file our tax return for that year and if paid on or before the first regular distribution payment after such
declaration. Prior to 2014, with respect to all REITs the amount distributed could not be preferential. This means that every
stockholder of the class of stock to which a distribution is made must be treated the same as every other stockholder of that class,
and no class of stock may be treated otherwise than in accordance with its dividend rights as a class (the “preferential dividend
rule”). Beginning in tax years after 2014, the preferential dividend rule no longer applies to publicly offered REITs, however, the
rule is still applicable to other entities taxed as REITs, which would include several of our subsidiaries. To the extent that we do not
distribute all of our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our “REIT taxable income,” as adjusted, we
will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates. As discussed above, we may be subject to an excise
tax if we fail to meet certain other distribution requirements. We believe we have satisfied the annual distribution requirements for
the year of our initial REIT election and each year thereafter through the year ended December 31, 2020. Although we intend to
make timely distributions sufficient to satisfy these annual distribution requirements for subsequent years, economic, market, legal,
tax or other factors could limit our ability to meet those requirements. See “Item 1A - Risk Factors.”
It is also possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution
requirement, or to distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, due to, among other
things, (1) timing differences between (i) the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses and (ii) the
inclusion of income and deduction of expenses in arriving at our taxable income, or (2) the payment of severance benefits that may
not be deductible to us. In the event that timing differences occur, we may find it necessary to arrange for borrowings or, if
possible, pay dividends in the form of taxable stock dividends in order to meet the distribution requirement.
Under certain circumstances, including in the event of a deficiency determined by the Internal Revenue Service, we may be able
to rectify a resulting failure to meet the distribution requirement for a year by paying “deficiency dividends” to stockholders in a
later year, which may be included in our deduction for distributions paid for the earlier year. Thus, we may be able to avoid being
disqualified as a REIT and/or taxed on amounts distributed as deficiency dividends; however, we will be required to pay applicable
penalties and interest based upon the amount of any deduction taken for deficiency dividend distributions.
Failure to Qualify as a REIT
If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable
income at regular corporate rates. Distributions to stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify as a REIT will not be
deductible nor will any particular amount of distributions be required to be made in any year. All distributions to stockholders will
be taxable as dividends to the extent of current and accumulated earnings and profits allocable to these distributions and, subject to
certain limitations, will be eligible for the dividends received deduction for corporate stockholders. Unless entitled to relief under
specific statutory provisions, we also will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year
during which qualification was lost. It is not possible to state whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to statutory relief.
Failure to qualify for even one year could result in our need to incur indebtedness or liquidate investments in order to pay
potentially significant resulting tax liabilities.
In addition to the relief described above under “Income Tests” and “Asset Tests,” relief is available in the event that we violate a
provision of the Internal Revenue Code that would result in our failure to qualify as a REIT if: (1) the violation is due to reasonable
cause and not due to willful neglect; (2) we pay a penalty of $50,000 for each failure to satisfy the provision; and (3) the violation
does not include a violation described under “Income Tests” or “Asset Tests” above. It is not now possible to determine the
circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions.
U.S. Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Our Stock
Treatment of Taxable U.S. Stockholders  The following summary applies to you only if you are a “U.S. stockholder.” A
“U.S. stockholder” is a holder of shares of stock who, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, is:
•a citizen or resident of the United States;
16
•an entity classified as a corporation or partnership, created or organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any
political subdivision of the United States, including any state;
•an estate, the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source; or
•a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or more
U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, has the authority to control all of the trust’s substantial
decisions.
So long as we qualify for taxation as a REIT, distributions on shares of our stock made out of the current or accumulated earnings
and profits allocable to these distributions (and not designated as capital gain dividends) will be taxable as dividends for U.S.
federal income tax purposes. None of these distributions will be eligible for the dividends received deduction for U.S. corporate
stockholders.
Generally, the current maximum marginal rate of tax payable by individuals on dividends received from corporations that are
subject to a corporate level of tax is 20%. Except in limited circumstances, this tax rate will not apply to dividends paid to you by
us on our shares, because generally we are not subject to U.S. federal income tax on the portion of our REIT taxable income or
capital gains distributed to our stockholders. The reduced maximum U.S. federal income tax rate will apply to that portion, if any,
of dividends received by you with respect to our shares that are attributable to: (1) dividends received by us from non-REIT
corporations or other taxable REIT subsidiaries; (2) income from the prior year with respect to which we were required to pay U.S.
federal corporate income tax during the prior year (if, for example, we did not distribute 100% of our REIT taxable income for the
prior year); or (3) the amount of any earnings and profits distributed by us and accumulated in a non-REIT year.
Although the preferential 20% rate on qualified dividends is generally not applicable to dividends to our shareholders, the
Internal Revenue Code provides for a deduction from income for individuals, trusts and estates for 20% of taxable REIT dividends
not eligible for the preferential rate, excluding capital gain dividends. This deduction is not taken into account for purposes of
determining the 3.8% tax on net investment income (described below) and, unlike the preferential rate, expires after 2025.
Distributions that are designated as capital gain dividends will be taxed as long-term capital gains (to the extent they do not
exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year), without regard to the period for which you held our stock. However, if you
are a corporation, you may be required to treat a portion of some capital gain dividends as ordinary income.
If we elect to retain and pay income tax on any net capital gain and designate such amount in a timely notice to you, you would
include in income, as long-term capital gain, your proportionate share of this net capital gain. You would also receive a refundable
tax credit for your proportionate share of the tax paid by us on such retained capital gains, and you would have an increase in the
basis of your shares of our stock in an amount equal to your includable capital gains less your share of the tax deemed paid.
You may not include in your U.S. federal income tax return any of our net operating losses or capital losses. U.S. federal income
tax rules may also require that certain minimum tax adjustments and preferences be apportioned to you. In addition, any
distribution declared by us in October, November or December of any year on a specified date in any such month shall be treated as
both paid by us and received by you on December 31 of that year, provided that the distribution is actually paid by us no later than
January 31 of the following year.
We will be treated as having sufficient earnings and profits to treat as a dividend any distribution up to the amount required to be
distributed in order to avoid imposition of the 4% excise tax discussed under “General” and “Qualification as a REIT - Annual
Distribution Requirements” above. As a result, you may be required to treat as taxable dividends certain distributions that would
otherwise result in a tax-free return of capital. Moreover, any “deficiency dividend” will be treated as a dividend (an ordinary
dividend or a capital gain dividend, as the case may be), regardless of our earnings and profits. Any other distributions in excess of
current or accumulated earnings and profits will generally not be taxable to you to the extent these distributions do not exceed the
adjusted tax basis of your shares of our stock. You will be required to reduce the tax basis of your shares of our stock by the amount
of these distributions until the basis has been reduced to zero, after which these distributions will be taxable as capital gain, if the
shares of our stock are held as capital assets. The tax basis as so reduced will be used in computing the capital gain or loss, if any,
realized upon the sale of the shares of our stock. Any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our stock which were held for six
months or less (after application of certain holding period rules) will generally be treated as a long-term capital loss to the extent
you previously received capital gain distributions with respect to these shares of our stock.
Upon the sale or exchange of any shares of our stock to or with a person other than us or a sale or exchange of all shares of our
stock (whether actually or constructively owned) with us, you will generally recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between
the amount realized on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in these shares of our stock. This gain or loss will be capital
gain or loss if you held these shares of our stock as a capital asset.
If we redeem any of your shares in us, the treatment can only be determined on the basis of particular facts at the time of
redemption. In general, you will recognize gain or loss (as opposed to dividend income) equal to the difference between the amount
received by you in the redemption and your adjusted tax basis in your shares redeemed if such redemption: (1) results
17
in a “complete termination” of your interest in all classes of our equity securities; (2) is a “substantially disproportionate
redemption”; or (3) is “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” with respect to you. In applying these tests, you must take into
account your ownership of all classes of our equity securities (e.g., common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants).
You also must take into account any equity securities that are considered to be constructively owned by you.
If, as a result of a redemption by us of your shares, you no longer own (either actually or constructively) any of our equity
securities or only own (actually and constructively) an insubstantial percentage of our equity securities, then it is probable that the
redemption of your shares would be considered “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” and, thus, would result in gain or loss to
you. However, whether a distribution is “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” depends on all of the facts and circumstances,
and if you rely on any of these tests at the time of redemption, you should consult your tax advisor to determine their application to
the particular situation.
Generally, if the redemption does not meet the tests described above, then the proceeds received by you from the redemption of
your shares will be treated as a distribution taxable as a dividend to the extent of the allocable portion of current or accumulated
earnings and profits. If the redemption is taxed as a dividend, your adjusted tax basis in the redeemed shares will be transferred to
any other shareholdings in us that you own. If you own no other shareholdings in us, under certain circumstances, such basis may
be transferred to a related person, or it may be lost entirely.
Gain from the sale or exchange of our shares held for more than one year is generally taxed at a maximum long-term capital gain
rate of 20% in the case of stockholders who are individuals and 21% in the case of stockholders that are corporations. Pursuant to
Internal Revenue Service guidance, we may classify portions of our capital gain dividends as eligible for specific treatment
provided under the Internal Revenue Code, which, depending on the nature of the capital gains, may result in taxation of such
portions at rates of either 20% or 25%. Capital losses recognized by a stockholder upon the disposition of our shares held for more
than one year at the time of disposition will be considered long-term capital losses. The deduction for capital losses is subject to
limitations.
An additional tax of 3.8% generally will be imposed on the “net investment income” of U.S. stockholders who meet certain
requirements and are individuals, estates or certain trusts. Among other items, “net investment income” generally includes gross
income from dividends and net gain attributable to the disposition of certain property, such as shares of our common stock or
warrants. In the case of individuals, this tax will only apply to the extent such individual’s modified adjusted gross income exceeds
$200,000 ($250,000 for married couples filing a joint return and surviving spouses, and $125,000 for married individuals filing a
separate return). U.S. stockholders should consult their tax advisors regarding the possible applicability of this additional tax in
their particular circumstances.
Treatment of Tax-Exempt U.S. Stockholders  Tax-exempt entities, including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts
and individual retirement accounts (“Exempt Organizations”), generally are exempt from U.S. federal income taxation. However,
they are subject to taxation on their unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). The Internal Revenue Service has issued a
published revenue ruling that dividend distributions from a REIT to an exempt employee pension trust do not constitute UBTI,
provided that the shares of the REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or business of the exempt employee pension trust.
Based on this ruling, amounts distributed by us to Exempt Organizations generally should not constitute UBTI. However, if an
Exempt Organization finances its acquisition of the shares of our stock with debt, a portion of its income from us will constitute
UBTI pursuant to the “debt financed property” rules. Likewise, a portion of the Exempt Organization’s income from us would
constitute UBTI if we held a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit. A tax-exempt U.S. stockholder that is
subject to tax on its UBTI will be required to segregate its taxable income and loss for each unrelated trade or business activity for
purposes of determining its UBTI.
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting Under certain circumstances, you may be subject to backup withholding at
applicable rates on payments made with respect to, or cash proceeds of a sale or exchange of, shares of our stock. Backup
withholding will apply only if you: (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you are an individual, is
ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of
perjury, that you have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has not notified you
that you are subject to backup withholding.
Backup withholding will not apply with respect to payments made to certain exempt recipients, such as corporations and tax-
exempt organizations. You should consult with a tax advisor regarding qualification for exemption from backup withholding, and
the procedure for obtaining an exemption. Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Rather, the amount of any backup
withholding with respect to a payment to a stockholder will be allowed as a credit against such stockholder’s U.S. federal income
tax liability and may entitle such stockholder to a refund, provided that the required information is provided to the Internal Revenue
Service.
Taxation of Foreign Stockholders  The following summary applies to you only if you are a foreign person. A “foreign person” is
a holder of shares of stock who, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, is not a U.S. stockholder. The U.S. federal taxation of foreign
persons is a highly complex matter that may be affected by many considerations.
18
Except as discussed below, distributions to you of cash generated by our real estate operations in the form of ordinary dividends,
but not by the sale or exchange of our capital assets, generally will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of 30%, unless an
applicable tax treaty reduces that tax and you file with us the required form evidencing the lower rate.
In general, you will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on a graduated rate basis rather than withholding with respect to your
investment in our stock if such investment is “effectively connected” with your conduct of a trade or business in the United States.
A corporate foreign stockholder that receives income that is, or is treated as, effectively connected with a United States trade or
business may also be subject to the branch profits tax, which is payable in addition to regular United States corporate income tax.
The following discussion will apply to foreign stockholders whose investment in us is not so effectively connected. We expect to
withhold United States income tax, as described below, on the gross amount of any distributions paid to you unless (1) you file an
Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI with us claiming that the distribution is “effectively connected” or (2) certain other
exceptions apply.
Distributions by us that are attributable to gain from the sale or exchange of a United States real property interest will be taxed to
you under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 (“FIRPTA”) as if these distributions were gains “effectively
connected” with a United States trade or business. Accordingly, you will be taxed at the normal capital gain rates applicable to a
U.S. stockholder on these amounts, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the
case of nonresident alien individuals. Distributions subject to FIRPTA may also be subject to a branch profits tax in the hands of a
corporate foreign stockholder that is not entitled to treaty exemption. We will be required to withhold tax at a rate of 21% from
distributions subject to FIRPTA. We will be required to withhold from distributions subject to FIRPTA, and remit to the Internal
Revenue Service, 21% of designated capital gain dividends, or, if greater, 21% of the amount of any distributions that could be
designated as capital gain dividends. In addition, if we designate prior distributions as capital gain dividends, subsequent
distributions, up to the amount of the prior distributions not withheld against, will be treated as capital gain dividends for purposes
of withholding.
Any capital gain dividend with respect to any class of stock that is “regularly traded” on an established securities market will be
treated as an ordinary dividend if the foreign stockholder did not own more than 10% of such class of stock at any time during the
taxable year. Foreign stockholders generally will not be required to report distributions received from us on U.S. federal income tax
returns and all distributions received by such stockholders treated as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes (including any
such capital gain dividends) will be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax (unless reduced under an applicable income tax treaty)
as discussed above. In addition, the branch profits tax will not apply to such distributions.
Unless our shares constitute a “United States real property interest” within the meaning of FIRPTA or are effectively connected
with a U.S. trade or business, a sale of our shares by you generally will not be subject to United States taxation. Even if our shares
were to constitute a “United States real property interest,” non-U.S. stockholders that are “qualified foreign pension funds” (or are
owned by a qualified foreign pension fund) meeting certain requirements may be exempt from FIRPTA withholding on the sale or
disposition of our shares. Our shares will not constitute a United States real property interest if we qualify as a “domestically
controlled REIT.” We believe that we qualify as and expect to continue to qualify as a domestically controlled REIT. A
domestically controlled REIT is a REIT in which at all times during a specified testing period less than 50% in value of its shares is
held directly or indirectly by foreign stockholders. Generally, we are permitted to assume that holders of less than 5% of our shares
at all times during a specified testing period are U.S. persons. However, if you are a nonresident alien individual who is present in
the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year and certain other conditions apply, you will be subject to a 30% tax
on such capital gains. In any event, a purchaser of our shares from you will not be required under FIRPTA to withhold on the
purchase price if the purchased shares are “regularly traded” on an established securities market or if we are a domestically
controlled REIT. Otherwise, under FIRPTA, the purchaser may be required to withhold 15% of the purchase price and remit such
amount to the Internal Revenue Service.
Backup withholding tax and information reporting will generally not apply to distributions paid to you outside the United States
that are treated as: (1) dividends to which the 30% or lower treaty rate withholding tax discussed above applies; (2) capital gains
dividends; or (3) distributions attributable to gain from the sale or exchange by us of U.S. real property interests. Payment of the
proceeds of a sale of stock within the United States or conducted through certain U.S. related financial intermediaries is subject to
both backup withholding and information reporting unless the beneficial owner certifies under penalties of perjury that he or she is
not a U.S. person (and the payor does not have actual knowledge that the beneficial owner is a U.S. person) or otherwise establishes
an exemption. You may obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by filing the appropriate claim
for refund with the Internal Revenue Service.
Withholding tax at a rate of 30% will be imposed on certain payments to you or certain foreign financial institutions (including
investment funds) and other non-US persons receiving payments on your behalf, including distributions in respect of shares of our
stock, if you or such institutions fail to comply with certain due diligence, disclosure and reporting rules, as set forth in Treasury
regulations. Accordingly, the entity through which shares of our stock are held will affect the determination of whether such
withholding is required. Stockholders that are otherwise eligible for an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. withholding taxes
with respect to such dividends will be required to seek a refund from the Internal Revenue Service to obtain the benefit of such
exemption or reduction. Additional requirements and conditions may be imposed pursuant to an
19
intergovernmental agreement, if and when entered into, between the United States and such institution’s home jurisdiction. We will
not pay any additional amounts to any stockholders in respect of any amounts withheld. You are encouraged to consult with your
tax advisor regarding U.S. withholding taxes and the application of Treasury regulations in light of your particular circumstances.
U.S. Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Depositary Shares
Owners of our depositary shares will be treated as if you were owners of the series of preferred stock represented by the
depositary shares. Thus, you will be required to take into account the income and deductions to which you would be entitled if you
were a holder of the underlying series of preferred stock.
Conversion or Exchange of Shares for Preferred Stock  No gain or loss will be recognized upon the withdrawal of preferred stock
in exchange for depositary shares and the tax basis of each share of preferred stock will, upon exchange, be the same as the
aggregate tax basis of the depositary shares exchanged. If you held your depositary shares as a capital asset at the time of the
exchange for shares of preferred stock, the holding period for your shares of preferred stock will include the period during which
you owned the depositary shares.
U.S. Federal Income and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Debt Securities
The following is a general summary of the U.S. federal income tax consequences and, in the case that you are a holder that is a
non-U.S. holder, as defined below, the U.S. federal estate tax consequences, of purchasing, owning and disposing of debt securities
periodically offered under one or more indentures (the “notes”). This summary assumes that you hold the notes as capital assets.
This summary applies to you only if you are the initial holder of the notes and you acquire the notes for a price equal to the issue
price of the notes. The issue price of the notes is the first price at which a substantial amount of the notes is sold other than to bond
houses, brokers or similar persons or organizations acting in the capacity of underwriters, placement agents or wholesalers. In
addition, this summary does not consider any foreign, state, local or other tax laws that may be applicable to us or a purchaser of
the notes.
U.S. Holders
The following summary applies to you only if you are a U.S. holder, as defined below.
Definition of a U.S. Holder  A “U.S. holder” is a beneficial owner of a note or notes that is for U.S. federal income tax purposes:
•a citizen or resident of the United States;
•a corporation, partnership or other entity classified as a corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or organized in
or under the laws of the United States or of any political subdivision of the United States, including any state;
•an estate, the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source; or
•a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or more
U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, has the authority to control all of the trust’s substantial
decisions.
Payments of Interest  Stated interest on the notes generally will be taxed as ordinary interest income from domestic sources at the
time it is paid or accrues in accordance with your method of accounting for tax purposes.
Sale, Exchange or Other Disposition of Notes  The adjusted tax basis in your note will generally be your cost. You generally will
recognize taxable gain or loss when you sell or otherwise dispose of your notes equal to the difference, if any, between:
•the amount realized on the sale or other disposition, less any amount attributable to any accrued interest, which will be
taxable in the manner described under “Payments of Interest” above; and
•your adjusted tax basis in the notes.
Your gain or loss generally will be capital gain or loss. This capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if at the time
of the sale or other disposition you have held the notes for more than one year. Subject to limited exceptions, your capital losses
cannot be used to offset your ordinary income (except in the case of individuals, who may offset up to $3,000 of ordinary income
each year).
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting  In general, “backup withholding” may apply to any payments made to you of
principal and interest on your note, and to the payment of the proceeds of a sale or other disposition of your note before maturity, if
you are a non-corporate U.S. holder and: (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you are an individual,
is ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to
20
certify, under penalties of perjury, that you have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal Revenue
Service has not notified you that you are subject to backup withholding.
The amount of any reportable payments, including interest, made to you (unless you are an exempt recipient) and the amount of
tax withheld, if any, with respect to such payments will be reported to you and to the Internal Revenue Service for each calendar
year. You should consult your tax advisor regarding your qualification for an exemption from backup withholding and the
procedures for obtaining such an exemption, if applicable. The backup withholding tax is not an additional tax and will be credited
against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided that correct information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service.
Non-U.S. Holders
The following summary applies to you if you are a beneficial owner of a note and are not a U.S. holder, as defined above (a
“non-U.S. holder”).
Special rules may apply to certain non-U.S. holders such as “controlled foreign corporations,” “passive foreign investment
companies” and “foreign personal holding companies.” Such entities are encouraged to consult their tax advisors to determine the
U.S. federal, state, local and other tax consequences that may be relevant to them.
U.S. Federal Withholding Tax  Subject to the discussion below, U.S. federal withholding tax will not apply to payments by us or
our paying agent, in its capacity as such, of principal and interest on your notes under the “portfolio interest” exception of the
Internal Revenue Code, provided that:
•you do not, directly or indirectly, actually or constructively, own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all
classes of our stock entitled to vote;
•you are not (1) a controlled foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is related, directly or indirectly, to
us through sufficient stock ownership, as provided in the Internal Revenue Code, or (2) a bank receiving interest described in
Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code;
•such interest is not effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or business; and
•you provide a signed written statement, under penalties of perjury, which can reliably be related to you, certifying that you
are not a U.S. person within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code and providing your name and address to us or our
paying agent; or
•a securities clearing organization, bank or other financial institution that holds customers’ securities in the ordinary course of
its trade or business and holds your notes on your behalf and that certifies to us or our paying agent under penalties of
perjury that it, or the bank or financial institution between it and you, has received from you your signed, written statement
and provides us or our paying agent with a copy of such statement.
Treasury regulations provide that:
•if you are a foreign partnership, the certification requirement will generally apply to your partners, and you will be required
to provide certain information;
•if you are a foreign trust, the certification requirement will generally be applied to you or your beneficial owners depending
on whether you are a “foreign complex trust,” “foreign simple trust,” or “foreign grantor trust” as defined in the Treasury
regulations; and
•look-through rules will apply for tiered partnerships, foreign simple trusts and foreign grantor trusts.
If you are a foreign partnership or a foreign trust, you should consult your own tax advisor regarding your status under these
Treasury regulations and the certification requirements applicable to you.
If you cannot satisfy the portfolio interest requirements described above, payments of interest will be subject to the 30% United
States withholding tax, unless you provide us with a properly executed (1) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming an
exemption from or reduction in withholding under the benefit of an applicable treaty or (2) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI
stating that interest paid on the note is not subject to withholding tax because it is effectively connected with your conduct of a
trade or business in the United States. Alternative documentation may be applicable in certain circumstances.
If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States and interest on a note is effectively connected with the conduct of
that trade or business, you will be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on that interest on a net income basis (although you will
be exempt from the 30% withholding tax provided the certification requirement described above is met) in the same manner as if
you were a U.S. person, except as otherwise provided by an applicable tax treaty. If you are a foreign corporation, you may be
required to pay a branch profits tax on the earnings and profits that are effectively connected to the conduct of your trade or
business in the United States.
21
Withholding tax at a rate of 30% will be imposed on payments of interest (including original issue discount) to you or certain
foreign financial institutions (including investment funds) and other non-US persons receiving payments on your behalf if you or
such institutions fail to comply with certain due diligence, disclosure and reporting rules, as set forth in Treasury regulations. We
will not pay any additional amounts to any holders of our debt instruments in respect of any amounts withheld. You are encouraged
to consult with your tax advisor regarding U.S. withholding taxes and the application of the relevant Treasury regulations in light of
your particular circumstances.
Sale, Exchange or other Disposition of Notes  You generally will not have to pay U.S. federal income tax on any gain or income
realized from the sale, redemption, retirement at maturity or other disposition of your notes, unless:
•in the case of gain, you are an individual who is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year of
the sale or other disposition of your notes, and specific other conditions are met;
•you are subject to tax provisions applicable to certain United States expatriates; or
•the gain is effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and gain with respect to your notes is effectively connected with
the conduct of that trade or business, you generally will be subject to U.S. income tax on a net basis on the gain. In addition, if you
are a foreign corporation, you may be subject to a branch profits tax on your effectively connected earnings and profits for the
taxable year, as adjusted for certain items.
U.S. Federal Estate Tax.  If you are an individual and are not a U.S. citizen or a resident of the United States, as specially defined
for U.S. federal estate tax purposes, at the time of your death, your notes will generally not be subject to the U.S. federal estate tax,
unless, at the time of your death (1) you owned actually or constructively 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all
our classes of stock entitled to vote, or (2) interest on the notes is effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or
business.
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting  Backup withholding will not apply to payments of principal or interest made by
us or our paying agent, in its capacity as such, to you if you have provided the required certification that you are a non-U.S. holder
as described in “U.S. Federal Withholding Tax” above, and provided that neither we nor our paying agent have actual knowledge
that you are a U.S. holder, as described in “U.S. Holders” above. We or our paying agent may, however, report payments of interest
on the notes.
The gross proceeds from the disposition of your notes may be subject to information reporting and backup withholding tax. If
you sell your notes outside the United States through a non-U.S. office of a non-U.S. broker and the sales proceeds are paid to you
outside the United States, then the U.S. backup withholding and information reporting requirements generally will not apply to that
payment. However, U.S. information reporting, but not backup withholding, will apply to a payment of sales proceeds, even if that
payment is made outside the United States, if you sell your notes through a non-U.S. office of a broker that has certain connections
with the United States.
You should consult your own tax advisor regarding application of backup withholding in your particular circumstance and the
availability of and procedure for obtaining an exemption from backup withholding. Any amounts withheld under the backup
withholding rules from a payment to you will be allowed as a refund or credit against your U.S. federal income tax liability,
provided the required information is furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.
U.S. Federal Income of Holders of Our Warrants
Exercise of Warrants  You will not generally recognize gain or loss upon the exercise of a warrant. Your basis in the debt
securities, preferred stock, depositary shares or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the exercise of the warrant will
be equal to the sum of your adjusted tax basis in the warrant and the exercise price paid. Your holding period in the debt securities,
preferred stock, depositary shares or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the exercise of the warrant will not include
the period during which the warrant was held by you.
Expiration of Warrants  Upon the expiration of a warrant, you will generally recognize a capital loss in an amount equal to your
adjusted tax basis in the warrant.
Sale or Exchange of Warrants  Upon the sale or exchange of a warrant to a person other than us, you will recognize gain or loss
in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in the
warrant. Such gain or loss will generally be capital gain or loss and will be long-term capital gain or loss if the warrant was held for
more than one year. Upon the sale of the warrant to us, the Internal Revenue Service may argue that you should recognize ordinary
income on the sale. You are advised to consult your own tax advisors as to the consequences of a sale of a warrant to us.
Potential Legislation or Other Actions Affecting Tax Consequences
22
Current and prospective securities holders should recognize that the present U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment
in us may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time and that any such action may affect investments
and commitments previously made. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons
involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of the Treasury, resulting in revisions of
regulations and revised interpretations of established concepts as well as statutory changes. Revisions in U.S. federal tax laws and
interpretations of these laws could adversely affect the tax consequences of an investment in us.
State, Local and Foreign Taxes
We, and holders of our debt and equity securities, may be subject to state, local or foreign taxation in various jurisdictions,
including those in which we or they transact business, own property or reside. It should be noted that we own properties located in
a number of state, local and foreign jurisdictions, and may be required to file tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. The
state, local or foreign tax treatment of us and holders of our debt and equity securities may not conform to the U.S. federal income
tax consequences discussed above. Consequently, you are urged to consult your advisor regarding the application and effect of
state, local and foreign tax laws with respect to any investment in our securities.
Because the U.S. generally maintains a worldwide corporate tax system, the foreign and U.S. tax systems are somewhat
interdependent. Longstanding international tax norms that determine each country’s jurisdiction to tax cross-border international
trade are evolving and could reduce the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to deduct for foreign tax purposes the interest they pay on
loans from the Company, thereby increasing the foreign tax liability of the subsidiaries. It is also possible that foreign countries
could increase their withholding taxes on dividends and interest. Given the unpredictability of these possible changes and their
potential interdependency, it is very difficult to assess the overall effect of such potential tax changes on our earnings and cash flow,
but such changes could adversely impact our financial results.
Internet Access to Our SEC Filings
Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those
reports, as well as our proxy statements and other materials that are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) are made available, free of charge, on the Internet at www.welltower.com/investors, as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We routinely post important information on our website at
www.welltower.com in the “Investors” section, including corporate and investor presentations and financial information. We intend
to use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations
under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on our website under the heading “Investors.” Accordingly, investors
should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press releases, public conference calls, and filings with the
SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is
included as an inactive textual reference only.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that constitute “forward-
looking statements,” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as
“may,” “will,” “intend,” “should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “estimate” or similar expressions that do not relate
solely to historical matters, we are making forward-looking statements. In particular, these forward-looking statements include, but
are not limited to, those relating to our opportunities to acquire, develop or sell properties; our ability to close our anticipated
acquisitions, investments or dispositions on currently anticipated terms, or within currently anticipated timeframes; the expected
performance of our operators/tenants and properties; our expected occupancy rates; our ability to declare and to make distributions
to stockholders; our investment and financing opportunities and plans; our continued qualification as a REIT; and our ability to
access capital markets or other sources of funds. 
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our
actual results to differ materially from our expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various
factors, including, but not limited to:
•the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic;
•uncertainty regarding the implementation and impact of the CARES Act and future stimulus or other COVID-19 relief
legislation;
•status of the economy;
•the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital;
•issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies,
responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost-effectively
obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance;
•changes in financing terms;
23
•competition within the health care and seniors housing industries;
•negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to,
their ability to pay rent and repay loans;
•our ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results;
•the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when anticipated;
•natural disasters and other acts of God affecting our properties;
•our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur;
•our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold;
•operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies;
•the cooperation of joint venture partners;
•government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements;
•liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants;
•unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future investments or acquisitions;
•environmental laws affecting our properties;
•changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting;
•the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates;
•our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT;
•key management personnel recruitment and retention; and
•the risks described under “Item 1A — Risk Factors.”
We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information,
future events, or otherwise.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
Risk Factor Summary
The following summarizes the principal factors that make an investment in our company speculative or risky, all of which are
more fully described in the Risk Factors section below. This summary should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors section
and should not be relied upon as an exhaustive summary of the material risks facing our business. The order of presentation is not
necessarily indicative of the level of risk that each factor poses to us.
Risks Arising from Our Business:
Our business model and the operations of our business involve risks, including those related to:
•the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic;
•uncertainty regarding the implementation and impact of the CARES Act and future stimulus or other COVID-19 relief
legislation;
•investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties;
•unknown liability exposure related to acquired properties;
•competition for acquisitions may result in increased prices;
•our joint venture partners;
•Seniors Housing Operating properties operational risks;
•our ability to terminate our management agreements with Seniors Housing Operating managers;
•operational and legal risks with respect to our properties managed in RIDEA structures;
•the ability of operators to make payments to us;
•the impacts of severe cold and flu seasons or other widespread illnesses on occupancy;
•the insolvency or bankruptcy of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors;
24
•our ability to timely reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us;
•any adverse developments in the business or financial condition of Sunrise Senior Living, LLC;
•any failure, inability or unwillingness by ProMedica Health System and Genesis Healthcare to satisfy obligations under
their agreements with us;
•ownership of property outside the U.S.;
•the impact of Brexit on our operations located in the U.K.;
•our ability to lease or sell properties on favorable terms;
•tenant, operator and manager insurance coverage;
•loss of properties owned through ground leases upon breach or termination of the ground leases;
•requirements of, or changes to governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid or government
funding;
•controls imposed on certain of our tenants who provide health care services that are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid
and other third-party payors to reduce admissions and length of stay;
•our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with federal, state, province, local, and industry-regulated licensure,
certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards;
•development, redevelopment and construction;
•losses caused by severe weather conditions, natural disasters or the physical effects of climate change;
•costs incurred to remediate environmental contamination at our properties;
•cybersecurity incidents; and
•our dependence on key personnel.
Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure
Our capital structure involves exposure to risks, including those related to:
•our future leverage;
•the availability of cash for distributions to stockholders;
•covenants in our debt agreements;
•limitations on our ability to access capital;
•changes affecting the availability of LIBOR;
•any downgrades in our credit ratings; and
•increases in interest rates.
Risks Arising from Our Status as a REIT
As a result of our status as a REIT, we are exposed to risks, including those related to:
•our ability to remain qualified as a REIT;
•the ability of our subsidiaries to qualify as a REIT;
•the impact of the 90% annual distribution requirement on our liquidity and ability to engage in otherwise beneficial
transactions;
•our limited use of TRSs under the Code;
•special requirements applicable to the lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary;
•tax consequences if certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the IRS as “true leases; and
•changes in our tax rate or exposure to additional tax liabilities.
Risks Factors
25
This section highlights significant factors, events and uncertainties that could create risk with an investment in our securities. The
events and consequences discussed in these risk factors could, in circumstances we may not be able to accurately predict, recognize
or control, have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, reputation, prospects, financial condition, operating results, cash
flows, liquidity, ability to pay dividends and stock price. These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face: our operations
could also be affected by factors, events or uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to
present significant risks to our operations. We group these risk factors into three categories:
•Risks arising from our business;
•Risks arising from our capital structure; and
•Risks arising from our status as a REIT. 
Risks Arising from Our Business
The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic may continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
We are unable to accurately predict the full impact that the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our results of operations, financial
condition, liquidity and cash flows due to numerous factors that are not within our control. These factors include the duration and
severity of the outbreak; availability and timely delivery and effectiveness of vaccines; public health measures, such as business
closures and stay-at-home orders, and other actions taken by governments, businesses and individuals in response to the pandemic;
the availability of federal, state, local or non-U.S. funding programs; general economic disruption and uncertainty in key markets
and financial market volatility; and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on general macroeconomic conditions and the pace of
recovery when the pandemic subsides.
The COVID-19 pandemic has subjected our business, operations and financial condition to a number of risks, including but not
limited to those discussed below:
•Risks Related to Revenue: Our revenues and our operators' revenues are dependent on occupancy. Our Seniors Housing
Operating portfolio has experienced a decline in spot occupancy from 85.8% at February 29, 2020 to 76.2% at December
31, 2020 and 74.4% at February 5, 2021. In addition to the impact of increases in mortality rates on occupancy of our
Seniors Housing Operating facilities, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has, to varying degrees during the course of the
pandemic, prevented prospective occupants and their families from visiting our facilities and limited the ability of new
occupants to move into our facilities due to heightened move-in criteria and screening. Although the ongoing impact of the
pandemic and vaccine deployment on occupancy remain uncertain, occupancy of our Seniors Housing Operating and
Triple-net properties could further decrease. Such a decrease could affect the net operating income of our Seniors Housing
Operating properties and the ability of our Triple-net operators to make contractual payments to us. In addition, although
we collected over 98% of rent due in the fourth quarter of 2020, rental income in our Outpatient Medical segment may
decrease if our tenants do not renew leases or do not make timely or full lease payments as a result of temporary medical
practice closures or decreases in revenue due to government imposed restrictions on elective medical procedures or
decisions by patients to delay treatments. As a result of the financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operators
and tenants, we may offer certain tenants concessions such as rent deferrals or rent abatements across our Triple-net and
Outpatient Medical segments.
•Risks Related to Operator and Tenant Financial Condition: In addition to decreased revenue from tenant and operator
payments, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic creates a heightened risk of tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other
obligor bankruptcy or insolvency due to factors such as decreased occupancy, medical practice disruptions resulting from
stay-at-home orders, increased health and safety and labor expenses or litigation resulting from developments related to
the COVID-19 pandemic. See" - The insolvency or bankruptcy of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other
obligors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition" for more information regarding
operator and tenant bankruptcy risks. Our ability to terminate our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another
tenant may be severely limited under current conditions due to the industry and macroeconomic effects of the COVID-19
pandemic and local ordinances. If we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant due to the effects of the COVID-
19 pandemic or for other reasons, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor
liabilities. Publicity about the operator's financial condition and insolvency proceedings, particularly in light of ongoing
publicity related to the COVID-19 pandemic, may also negatively impact their and our reputations, decreasing customer
demand and revenues. Should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected.
•Risks Related to Operations: Across all of our properties, we and our operators have incurred increased operational costs
as a result of the introduction of public health measures and other regulations affecting our properties and our operations,
as well as additional health and safety measures adopted by us and our operators related to the COVID-19 pandemic,
including increases in labor and property cleaning expenses and expenditures related to our efforts to procure PPE and
supplies on behalf of our operators. Such operational costs may increase in the future based on the duration and severity of
the pandemic or the introduction of additional public health regulations. Operators and tenants are also subject to risks
arising from the unique pressures on seniors housing and medical practice employees during
26
the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result of difficult conditions and stresses related to the COVID-19 pandemic, employee
morale and productivity may suffer and additional pay, such as hazard pay, may not be sufficient to retain key operator and
tenant employees. In addition, our operations or those of our operators or tenants may be adversely impacted if a
significant number of our employees or those of our operators or tenants contract COVID-19. Although we continue to
undertake extensive efforts to ensure the safety of our properties, employees and residents and to provide operator support
in this regard, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our facilities could result in additional operational costs and
reputational and litigation risk to us and our operators. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, operator and tenant cost of
insurance is expected to increase and such insurance may not cover certain claims related to COVID-19. Our exposure to
COVID-19 related litigation risk may be increased if the operators or tenants of the relevant facilities are subject to
bankruptcy or insolvency. In addition, to varying degrees during the course of the pandemic we have experienced
increased operational challenges and costs resulting from logistical challenges such as supply chain interruptions, business
closures and restrictions on the movement of people. In response to stay-at-home orders and to support the health and
well-being of our employees, the large majority of our employees are currently working remotely. The effects of such
work arrangements for an extended period of time could impact employee productivity and morale and introduce
additional operational risk, including but not limited to cybersecurity risks.
•Risks Related to Property Acquisitions and Dispositions: As a result of uncertainty regarding the length and severity of the
COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of the pandemic on our business and related industries, our investments in and
acquisitions of seniors housing and health care properties, as well as our ability to transition or sell properties with
profitable results, may be limited. Such disruptions to acquisition, disposition and development activity may negatively
impact our long-term competitive position.
•Risks Related to Liquidity: If our access to capital is restricted or our borrowing costs increase as a result of developments
in financial markets relating to the pandemic, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. In
addition, a prolonged period of decreased revenue and limited acquisition and disposition activity may adversely affect our
financial condition and long-term growth prospects and there can also be no assurance that we will not face credit rating
downgrades. Future downgrades could adversely affect our cost of capital, liquidity, competitive position and access to
capital markets.
•Risks Related to Dividends: The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our results of operations, liquidity and financial
condition could adversely affect our ability to pay dividend distributions at expected levels or at all. All distributions are
made at the discretion of our Board of Directors in accordance with Delaware law and depend on our earnings, our
financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectation of our future capital requirements and
operating performance, restrictive covenants in our financial and other contractual agreements, maintenance of our REIT
qualification, restrictions under Delaware law and other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to
time. Our Board of Directors will continue to assess our dividend rate on an ongoing basis, as the COVID-19 pandemic
and related market conditions and our financial position continue to evolve. Our Board of Directors declared a cash
dividend for the quarter ended December 31, 2020 of $0.61 per share, consistent with the cash dividends for the quarters
ended September 30, June 30 and March 31, 2020, representing a 30% decrease from the $0.87 per share dividend for the
quarter ended December 31, 2019.
The events and consequences discussed in these risk factors could, in circumstances we may not be able to accurately predict,
recognize or control, have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, reputation, prospects, financial condition, operating
results, cash flows, liquidity, ability to pay dividends and stock price. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to adversely affect our
operating and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in the risk factors in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.
There remains uncertainty regarding the implementation and impact of the CARES Act and any future stimulus or other
COVID-19 relief legislation. There can be no assurance as to the amount of financial assistance we and our operators will
receive or that we will be able to comply with the terms and conditions to keep such assistance.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Coronavirus Aid Relief, and Economic Security Act ("CARES Act") and the
Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act ("PPPHCE Act"), signed into law on March 20, 2020, and April
24, 2020, respectively, authorized $175 billion in funding to be distributed to healthcare providers, including assisted living
facilities. These funds, distributed through the Provider Relief Fund and administered by the Department of Health and Human
Services, are required to be used to prevent, prepare for and respond to COVID-19 and reimburse expenses or lost revenues
attributable the COVID-19 pandemic. Although these distributions are not subject to repayment, attestation and compliance with
certain terms and conditions including detailed reporting and auditing are required. Any funds that are ultimately received and
retained by us are not expected to fully offset the losses incurred in our senior living portfolio that are attributable to the COVID-19
pandemic.
In 2020 applications were made for amounts under Phase 2 and Phase 3 of the Provider Relief Fund following the announcement
from the Department of Health and Human Services that it expanded the eligibility of the CARES Act to include assisted living
facilities. During the fourth quarter, we received Provider Relief Funds of approximately $9 million which was recognized as a
reduction to property operating expenses. To date in 2021, we have received approximately $34 million of
27
Provider Relief Funds. While we have received some funds to date, there can be no assurance that all of our applications will be
approved or that additional funds will ultimately be received in full or in part.
Our investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our
expectations 
Some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating
to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention
that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. If we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the
project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. Such expenditures may negatively affect
our results of operations. Investments in and acquisitions of seniors housing and health care properties entail risks associated with
real estate investments generally, including risks that the investment will not achieve expected returns, that the cost estimates for
necessary property improvements will prove inaccurate or that the tenant, operator or manager will fail to meet performance
expectations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our anticipated acquisitions and investments, the completion of which is
subject to various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with anticipated timing, on anticipated terms, or at all. We may
be unable to obtain or assume financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Health care properties are often highly
customizable and the development or redevelopment of such properties may require costly tenant-specific improvements. We also
may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our
existing operations, and this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Acquired properties
may be located in new markets, either within or outside the United States, where we may face risks associated with a lack of market
knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area, costs associated with opening a new
regional office and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will
achieve the economic benefit we expect from acquisitions, investment, development and redevelopment opportunities. 
Acquired properties may expose us to unknown liability
We may acquire properties or invest in joint ventures that own properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with
only limited recourse, against the prior owners or other third parties with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability
were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle or contest it,
which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to acquired properties might
include: liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the
former owners of the properties, liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business and claims for indemnification by general
partners, directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.
Competition for acquisitions may result in increased prices for properties
We may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other well-capitalized investors, including publicly traded and
privately held REITs, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign
wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors. This competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the
following risks: we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate
investors and, even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other real estate investors may significantly
increase the purchase price.
Our investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over these investments, our
partners’ insolvency or failure to meet their obligations, and disputes between us and our partners 
We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities.
Joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our
partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may
result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have economic or other
business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute
with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such dispute and could have an adverse impact
on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent
contrary to our instructions or requests; and that our joint venture partners may be structured differently than us for tax purposes,
which could create conflicts of interest and risks to our REIT status. In some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to
trigger a buy-sell, put right or forced sale arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, acquire our partner’s interest or
sell the underlying asset at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire our
partner’s interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. In such
event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. On the other hand, our
ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted and the market for our interest may be limited
and/or valued lower than fair market value. Joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners,
which could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. Even when we have a controlling interest, certain major
decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property.
28
We assume operational and legal risks with respect to our properties managed in RIDEA structures that could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition
We have entered into various joint ventures that were structured under the provisions of the REIT Investment Diversification and
Empowerment Act of 2007 (“RIDEA”), which permits REITs to own or partially own “qualified health care properties” in a
structure through which we can participate directly in the cash flow of the properties’ operations (as compared to receiving only
contractual rent payments) in compliance with REIT requirements. A “qualified health care property” includes real property and
any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility,
congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary
services to patients.
Under a RIDEA structure, we are required to rely on our operator to manage and operate the property, including complying with
laws and providing resident care. However, as the owner of the property under a RIDEA structure, we are responsible for
operational and legal risks and liabilities of the property, including, but not limited to, those relating to employment matters of our
operators, compliance with health care fraud and abuse and other laws, governmental reimbursement matters, compliance with
federal, state, local and industry-related licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards, and litigation
involving our properties or residents/patients, even though we have limited ability to control or influence our operators’
management of these risks. Further, our taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”) is generally required to hold the applicable health care
license and enroll in the applicable government health care programs (e.g., Medicare- and Medicaid), which subjects us to potential
liability under various health care regulatory laws. Penalties for failure to comply with applicable laws may include loss or
suspension of licenses and certificates of need, certification or accreditation, exclusion from government health care programs (e.g.,
Medicare and Medicaid), administrative sanctions and civil monetary penalties. Although we have some general oversight approval
rights and the right to review operational and financial reporting information, our operators are ultimately in control of the day-to-
day business of the property, including clinical decision-making, and we rely on them to operate the properties in a manner that
complies with applicable law.
We are exposed to operational risks with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating properties that could adversely affect our
revenue and operations
We are exposed to various operational risks with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating properties that may increase our costs
or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. In addition to operational challenges related to the COVID-19 pandemic, these
risks include fluctuations in occupancy experienced during the normal course of business, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement,
if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure,
certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and professional
liability insurance coverage; increases in property taxes; state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; federal and
state housing laws and regulations, including rent and eviction restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic; and the availability
and increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). Any one or a combination of these factors may
adversely affect our revenue and operations.
We have rights to terminate our management agreements with operators, in whole or with respect to specific properties under
certain circumstances, and we may be unable to replace if our management agreements are terminated or not renewed
We are parties to long-term management agreements with our Seniors Housing Operating managers pursuant to which they
provide comprehensive property management, accounting and other services with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating
properties. We have the ability to terminate any of our management agreements upon the occurrence of certain events such as
insolvency relating to such manager, and in some cases, the failure to meet specific NOI targets without curing, as well as the
occurrence of other events or certain conditions.
We regularly monitor and review our rights and remedies under our management agreements. When determining if we will take
significant action under those agreements, including terminating a manager, we consider numerous legal, contractual, regulatory,
business and other relevant factors. In exercising our rights to terminate or not renew a management agreement, we would work
with our existing seniors housing operators or potentially new operators to manage the properties; however, there is no assurance
that we would be able to timely source a replacement or that any replacement manager would be effective. Any transition to a new
manager would most likely require regulatory approval and potentially the approval of the holders of any liens on the property. The
failure to replace on a timely basis, as well as the failure to receive these approvals, either at all or in a timely manner, could have
an adverse effect on the properties and our revenue.
Decreases in our operators’ revenues or increases in our operators’ expenses could affect our operators’ ability to make
payments to us
We have very limited control over the success or failure of our operators' businesses and, at any time, an operator may experience
a downturn in its business that weakens its financial condition. Our operators’ revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, private
pay rates, and Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable. Expenses for these facilities are
29
primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. Revenues from government
reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. Operating
costs continue to increase for our operators. To the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses
result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral
would have to be relied upon. To the extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need to record an impairment for such
asset. Furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. Any such impairment
or loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results. These risks are magnified where we lease multiple properties to a
single operator under a master lease, as an operator failure or default under a master lease would expose us to these risks across
multiple properties. Although our lease agreements give us the right to exercise certain remedies in the event of default on the
obligations owing to us, we may determine not to do so if we believe that enforcement of our rights would be more detrimental to
our business than seeking alternative approaches.
Increased competition and oversupply may affect our operators’ and managers' ability to meet their obligations to us 
The operators and managers of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators and managers of properties
and other health care providers that provide comparable services for residents and patients, including on the basis of the scope and
quality of care and services provided, reputation and financial condition, physical appearance of the properties, price, and location.
Our operators and managers are expected to encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract
residents or expand their businesses. In addition, we expect that there will continue to be a more than adequate inventory of seniors
housing facilities. We cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and
rate levels that meet our expected yields and fulfill their obligations to us, including but not limited to the results of the COVID-19
pandemic. If our operators and managers cannot compete effectively or if there is an oversupply of facilities, their financial
performance could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.
A severe cold and flu season, epidemics or any other widespread illnesses could adversely affect the occupancy of our Seniors
Housing Operating and Triple-net properties
In addition to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, our business and operations are exposed to risks from severe cold and flu
seasons or the occurrence of epidemics or any other widespread illnesses. Our revenues and our operators' revenues are dependent
on occupancy and the occupancy of our Seniors Housing Operating and Triple-net properties could significantly decrease in the
event of a severe cold and flu season, an epidemic or any other widespread illness. Such a decrease could affect the operating
income of our Seniors Housing Operating properties and the ability of our Triple-net operators to make payments to us. As
experienced during the COVID-19 pandemic, a future flu or other pandemic could significantly increase the cost burdens faced by
our operators, including if they are required to implement quarantines for residents, and adversely affect their ability to meet their
obligations to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 
The insolvency or bankruptcy of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors may adversely affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition 
We are exposed to the risk that our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers or other obligors may not be able to meet the rent,
principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor
bankruptcy or insolvency, or that a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or
insolvency proceedings for other reasons. Although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant,
demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding
obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies,
the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. A tenant,
operator, borrower, manager or other obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our
ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise
other rights and remedies. In addition, if a lease is rejected in a tenant bankruptcy, our claim against the tenant may be limited by
applicable provisions of the bankruptcy law. We may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance)
to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new
tenant. In some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. In some of those
situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. If we cannot transition a
leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities.
Publicity about the operator's financial condition and insolvency proceedings may also negatively impact their and our reputations,
decreasing customer demand and revenues. Should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely
affected. 
We may not be able to timely reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us 
From time to time, we will have cash available from the proceeds of sales of our securities, principal payments on our loans
receivable or the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support
arrangements. In order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to reinvest these proceeds
in a timely manner. We compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors, including
30
other health care REITs, real estate partnerships, health care providers, health care lenders and other investors, including
developers, banks, insurance companies, pension funds, government-sponsored entities and private equity firms, some of whom
may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do. This competition for attractive investments may
negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. In addition, our ability to execute on our real
estate investment strategies may be temporarily disrupted during periods of financial market volatility or real estate and health care
industry market uncertainty, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The properties managed by Sunrise Senior Living, LLC (“Sunrise”) account for a significant portion of our revenues and net
operating income and any adverse developments in its business or financial condition could adversely affect us 
As of December 31, 2020, Sunrise managed 165 of our Seniors Housing Operating properties. These properties account for a
significant portion of our revenues and net operating income. Although we have various rights as the property owner under our
management agreements, we rely on Sunrise’s personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, proprietary
information, good faith and judgment to manage our Seniors Housing Operating properties efficiently and effectively. We also rely
on Sunrise to set appropriate resident fees, to provide accurate property-level financial results for our properties in a timely manner
and to otherwise operate them in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and
regulations. Any adverse developments in Sunrise’s business or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our properties
efficiently and effectively, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For example,
we depend on Sunrise’s ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations
of our Seniors Housing Operating properties. A shortage of nurses or other trained personnel or general inflationary pressures may
force Sunrise to enhance its pay and benefits packages to compete effectively for such personnel, but it may not be able to offset
these added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents. Any increase in labor costs and other property operating expenses,
any failure by Sunrise to attract and retain qualified personnel, or significant changes in Sunrise’s senior management or equity
ownership could adversely affect the income we receive from our Seniors Housing Operating properties and have a material
adverse effect on us. Also, if Sunrise experiences any significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties, such
difficulties could result in, among other things, acceleration of its indebtedness, impairment of its continued access to capital or the
commencement of insolvency proceedings by or against it under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which, in turn, could adversely affect
our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we determine to sell or transition properties currently managed by
Sunrise, we may experience operational challenges and/or significantly declining financial performance for those properties. See
Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. 
We depend on ProMedica Health System ("ProMedica") and Genesis Healthcare (“Genesis”) for a significant portion of our
revenues and any failure, inability or unwillingness by them to satisfy obligations under their agreements with us could
adversely affect us 
The properties we lease to ProMedica and Genesis account for a significant portion of our revenues, and because these leases are
triple-net leases, we also depend on ProMedica and Genesis to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair
expenses in connection with the leased properties. We cannot assure you that ProMedica and Genesis will have sufficient assets,
income and access to financing to enable them to make rental payments to us or to otherwise satisfy their respective obligations
under our leases, and any failure, inability or unwillingness by ProMedica and Genesis to do so could have an adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition. ProMedica and Genesis have also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us
harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses, and we
cannot assure you that ProMedica and Genesis will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to
enable them to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations. ProMedica and Genesis's failure to effectively conduct their
operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect their business reputations and their ability to attract and
retain patients and residents in our properties, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial
condition. Additionally, we have made loans to Genesis and their operational or other failures could adversely impact their ability
to repay these loans when due. During 2020, Genesis indicated substantial doubt as to their ability to continue as a going concern.
Effective July 1, 2020, we revised our method of revenue recognition to a cash-basis accounting method from a straight-line
accounting method and wrote off existing straight-line rent receivable balances of $91,025,000. In addition, during 2020 we
recognized $80,873,000 of provision for loan losses with respect to our Genesis loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2020, Genesis
is current on all obligations to us.
Ownership of property outside the U.S. may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our domestic
operations 
We have operations in the U.K. and Canada which represent 9.8% and 9.4% of total Welltower revenues, respectively. As of
December 31, 2020, Revera managed 94 of our Seniors Housing Operating properties in Canada, representing a significant portion
of our revenues, and also owned a controlling interest in Sunrise. International development, ownership, and operating activities
involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. These risks include, but
are not limited to, any international currency gain or loss recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates, which may not
qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test required for us to satisfy annually in order to qualify and
maintain our status as a REIT; challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; impact
31
from international trade disputes and the associated impact on our tenants' supply chain and consumer spending levels; changes in
foreign political, regulatory, and economic conditions (regionally, nationally and locally) including, but not limited to, the
macroeconomic and regulatory effects of Brexit, including impacts on the U.K. real estate market; challenges in managing
international operations; challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to
real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment and other civil and criminal legal proceedings; foreign ownership
restrictions with respect to operations in foreign countries; local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards
and practices; differences in lending practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing; regional or
country-specific business cycles and political and economic instability; and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations
in the U.S. that affect foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If we are unable to
successfully manage the risks associated with international expansion and operations, our results of operations and financial
condition may be adversely affected. 
The business and financial results of our operations located in the U.K. may be negatively impacted as a result of Brexit
The future relationship between the U.K. and the EU, as well as the legal and economic consequences of those terms remain
unclear, including with respect to the post-Brexit regulatory environment in the U.K. It is possible that the level of health care and
other economic activity in the U.K. will be adversely impacted by the U.K.'s withdrawal from the EU in 2020 (commonly referred
to as "Brexit") and that we will face increased regulatory and legal complexities which could have an adverse impact on the
financial condition and results of operations of our properties in the U.K.
Moreover, the value of the British Pound Sterling incurred significant fluctuations. If the value of the British Pound Sterling
continues to incur similar fluctuations, unfavorable exchange rate changes may negatively affect the value of our operations located
in the U.K., as translated to our reporting currency, the U.S. Dollar, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which may impact the revenue
and earnings we report. Continued fluctuations in the British Pound Sterling may also result in the imposition of price adjustments
by E.U.-based suppliers to our U.K. operations, as those suppliers seek to compensate for the changes in value of the British Pound
Sterling as compared to the European Euro.
If our tenants do not renew their existing leases, or if we are required to sell properties for liquidity reasons, we may be unable
to lease or sell the properties on favorable terms, or at all
We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times. If
these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties, or sell them. There can be no
assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable
to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. Our competitors may offer space at rental rates
below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we
may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge to retain customers when leases expire. In addition, our
ability to reposition our properties with a suitable replacement tenant or operator could be significantly delayed or limited by state
licensing, receivership, CON or other laws, as well as by the Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules, and we could
incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings. Even if
tenants decide to renew or lease new space, the terms of renewals or new leases, including the cost of required renovations or
concessions to tenants, may be less favorable to us than current lease terms.
Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and most of the property we own is highly customized for specific uses. Our ability
to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in operator, economic and other conditions will be limited.
No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell. Our inability to respond
rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In
addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and
health care industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell
properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. 
Our tenants, operators and managers may not have the necessary insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses 
We maintain or require our tenants, operators and managers to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties and
their operations with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are customary for similarly situated companies in our
industry and we frequently review our insurance programs and requirements. Our tenants, operators and manager may not be able
to maintain adequate levels of insurance and required coverages. Also, we may not be able to require the same levels of insurance
coverage under our lease, management and other agreements, which could adversely affect us in the event of a significant
uninsured loss. We cannot make any guarantee as to the future financial viability of the insurers that underwrite our policies and the
policies maintained by our tenants, operators and managers. Insurance may not be available at a reasonable cost in the future or
policies may not be maintained at a level that will fully cover all losses on our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic
event. This may be especially the case due to increases in property insurance costs. In addition, in recent years, long-term/post-
acute care and seniors housing operators and managers have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of
patient care liability claims. As a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. Due to the
uncertainty of the long term effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, general and professional liability insurance coverage may be
restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the tenants’, operators’ and managers’ future
32
operations, cash flows and financial conditions, and may have a material adverse effect on the tenants’, operators’ and managers’
ability to meet their obligations to us.
Our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the
ground leases 
We have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is
located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. Many of these
ground leases impose significant limitations on our uses of the subject properties, restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer our
interests in the properties or restrict the leasing of the properties. These restrictions may limit our ability to timely sell or exchange
the properties, impair the properties’ value or negatively impact our ability to find suitable tenants for the properties. As the lessee
under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier
breach of the ground lease by us.
The requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid or government
funding, could have a material adverse effect on our obligors’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which
could adversely affect our obligors’ ability to meet their obligations to us 
Some of our obligors’ businesses are affected by government reimbursement. To the extent that an operator/tenant receives a
significant portion of its revenues from government payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such revenues may be subject to
statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions,
administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding
restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities), any lapse in Congressional funding of the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such
property. In recent years, government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures.
Federal and state authorities may continue seeking to implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies that may
negatively impact health care property operations. See “Item 1 - Business - Certain Government Regulations - United States -
Reimbursement” above for additional information. Health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance
to federal and state authorities. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms
may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. There can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels
will be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from Medicare,
Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have
a material adverse effect on an obligor’s liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the
ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. 
Since January 1, 2014, the Health Reform Laws have provided those states that expand their Medicaid coverage to otherwise
eligible state residents with incomes at or below 138% of the federal poverty level with an increased federal medical assistance
percentage, effective January 1, 2014, when certain conditions are met. Given that the federal government substantially funds the
Medicaid expansion, it is unclear how many states will ultimately pursue this option, although, as of early January 2021, more than
75% of the states have expanded Medicaid coverage. The participation by states in the Medicaid expansion could have the dual
effect of increasing our tenants’ revenues, through new patients, but further straining state budgets and their ability to pay our
tenants.
The status of the Health Reform Laws may be subject to change as a result of political, legislative, regulatory, and administrative
developments and judicial proceedings. For example, the U.S. Supreme Court heard oral argument in a case seeking to invalidate
the Affordable Care Act on November 10, 2020, with a decision expected to be issued in 2021. Additionally, while the Trump
Administration and prior U.S. Congresses have sought to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the
Health Reform Laws, including Medicaid expansion, there is uncertainty with respect to the impact the Biden Administration and
the new U.S. Congress may have upon the Health Reform Laws. If the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our
operators and tenants are materially adversely impacted by the Health Reform Laws or future legislation, our revenue and
operations may be adversely affected as well. More generally, and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory
environment for health care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit and budgetary concerns, we cannot predict
the impact that broad-based, far-reaching legislative or regulatory changes could have on the U.S. economy, our business, or that of
our operators and tenants. 
If controls imposed on certain of our tenants who provide health care services that are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and
other third-party payors to reduce admissions and length of stay affect inpatient volumes at our health care facilities, the
financial condition or results of operations of those tenants could be adversely affected
Controls imposed by Medicare, Medicaid and commercial third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay,
commonly referred to as “utilization reviews,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect certain of our health care
facilities, specifically our acute care hospitals and post-acute facilities. Utilization review entails the review of the admission and
course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue
to be negatively affected by payor-required pre-admission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressures to maximize
outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to
33
impose more stringent cost controls and reductions are expected to continue, which could negatively impact the financial condition
of our tenants who provide health care services in our hospitals and post-acute facilities. If so, this could adversely affect these
tenants’ ability and willingness to comply with the terms of their leases with us and/or renew those leases upon expiration, which
could have a material adverse effect on us.
Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with federal, state, province, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification
and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely affect such operators’ or tenants’ operations, which could
adversely affect our operators’ and tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us 
Our operators and tenants generally are subject to or impacted by varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated
licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards. These laws and regulations include, among others: laws
protecting consumers against deceptive practices; laws relating to the operation of our properties and how our tenants and operators
conduct their business, such as fire, health and safety, data security and privacy laws; federal and state laws affecting hospitals,
clinics and other health care communities that participate in both Medicare and Medicaid that specify reimbursement rates, pricing,
reimbursement procedures and limitations, quality of services and care, background checks, food service and physical plants, and
similar foreign laws regulating the health care industry; resident rights laws (including abuse and neglect laws) and fraud laws;
anti-kickback and physician referral laws; the ADA and similar state and local laws; and safety and health standards set by the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration or similar foreign agencies. Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with any of
these laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension,
decertification or exclusion from federal and state health care programs, civil liability, and in certain limited instances, criminal
penalties, loss of license, closure of the facility and/or the incurrence of considerable costs arising from an investigation or
regulatory action. The likelihood of these actions may increase due to the uncertainty of the long term effects of the COVID-19
pandemic. Such actions may have an effect on our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore,
adversely impact us. In addition, we may be directly subject to certain health care fraud and abuse laws and data privacy laws, as
well as potential investigation or enforcement, as a result of our RIDEA-structured arrangements, and certain other arrangements
we may pursue with healthcare entities who are directly subject to these laws. See “Item 1 - Business - Certain Government
Regulations - United States - Fraud & Abuse Enforcement” and “Item 1 - Business - Certain Government Regulations - United
States - Health Care Matters - Generally” above.
Many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or CON to operate. Failure to obtain a license, registration, or
CON, or loss of a required license, registration, or CON would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the
operators or tenants. These events could materially adversely affect our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make rent or other
obligatory payments to us. State and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or
acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a CON or other similar
approval from a state agency. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States — Licensing and
Certification” above. 
In addition, we cannot assure you that future changes in government regulation will not adversely affect the health care industry,
including our tenants and operators, nor can we be certain that our tenants and operators will achieve and maintain occupancy and
rate levels or labor cost levels that will enable them to satisfy their obligations to us.
Unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition
From time to time, we are directly involved or named as a party in in legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims that involve
class actions, disputes regarding property damage, care matters and other issues. We also are named as defendants in lawsuits
allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which such operators/tenants or managers
have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in
connection with their respective businesses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable
settlement of, pending or future litigation. In addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or
environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. An unfavorable resolution of
pending or future litigation or legal proceedings may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition. Regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses, significantly divert the
attention of management, and could damage our reputation and our brand. In addition, any such resolution could involve our
agreement to terms that restrict the operation of our business. We cannot guarantee losses incurred in connection with any current
or future legal or regulatory proceedings or actions will not exceed any provisions we may have set aside in respect of such
proceedings or actions or will not exceed any available insurance coverage.
Development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability
In connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain,
or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and
authorizations. These factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. In addition, we may abandon
opportunities we have begun to investigate, for a range of reasons, including changes in expected financing or
34
construction costs, adverse changes in expected rents or expenses, adverse environmental findings, or conditions to zoning
approval, which would result in additional expenses beyond those originally expected. In addition, we may not be able to obtain
financing on favorable terms, or at all, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities. We may not be able
to complete construction and lease-up of a property on budget and on schedule, which could result in increased debt service
expense or construction costs. Additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties
means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. Because we are required to make cash distributions to our
stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to
fund such distributions. Newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could
adversely affect our overall financial performance. 
In deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance
of that property. In particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy, rental rates, operating
expenses, capital costs and future competition. If our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate, the
property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. Our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping
an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. Additionally, we
may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the
operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. 
Operators of new facilities we construct may need to obtain Medicare and Medicaid certification and enter into Medicare and
Medicaid provider agreements and/or third-party payor contracts. In the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary
licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able
to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and
the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate
the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. 
We may experience losses caused by severe weather conditions, natural disasters or the physical effects of climate change,
which could result in an increase of our or our tenants’ cost of insurance, unanticipated costs associated with evacuation, a
decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property 
We maintain or require our tenants to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions,
limits and deductibles that we believe are appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage. However, a large number
of our properties are located in areas particularly susceptible to revenue loss, cost increase or damage caused by severe weather
conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes and floods, as well as the effects of climate change. We
believe, given current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, that our and our tenants’ insurance coverage is
appropriate to cover reasonably anticipated losses that may be caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, wildfires and
other severe weather conditions and natural disasters, including the effects of climate change. Nevertheless, we are always subject
to the risk that such insurance will not fully cover all losses and, depending on the severity of the event and the impact on our
properties, such insurance may not cover a significant portion of the losses including but not limited to the costs associated with
evacuation. These losses may lead to an increase of our and our tenants’ cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues
from an affected property and a loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in an affected property. In addition, we or our
tenants may not purchase insurance under certain circumstances if the cost of insurance exceeds, in our or our tenants’ judgment,
the value of the coverage relative to the risk of loss. Also, changes in federal and state legislation and regulation relating to climate
change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency and resiliency of our existing properties and
could also necessitate us to spend more on our new development properties without a corresponding increase in revenue.
To the extent that significant changes in the climate occur in areas where our communities are located, we may experience
extreme weather and changes in precipitation and temperature, all of which may result in physical damage to or a decrease in
demand for properties located in these areas or affected by these conditions. Should the impact of climate change be material,
including significant property damage to or destruction of our communities, or occur for lengthy periods of time, our financial
condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, changes in federal, state and local legislation and
regulation based on concerns about climate change could result in increased capital expenditures on our existing properties and our
new development properties without a corresponding increase in revenue, resulting in adverse impacts to our net income.
We may incur costs to remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an adverse effect on our or
our obligors’ business or financial condition
Under various laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous
substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental
contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or
operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. We may become liable to reimburse the government for
damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the
person’s relationship to the property. Our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property.
Moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an
35
interest in them. Those assessments are designed to meet the “all appropriate inquiry” standard, which we believe qualifies us for
the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. Based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our
properties are subject to material environmental contamination. However, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties
and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial
condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. 
Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information
Our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our
confidential data through phishing or other malicious activity, attempts to interrupt our access to or use of information technology
systems through distributed denial-of-service or ransomware attacks, breaches related to our increased receipt and use of data from
multiple sources, and other electronic security breaches or other cybersecurity incidents within our environment or our third party
vendors' environments, including those resulting from human error, product defects and technology failures. Such cyber-attacks can
range from individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our or our vendors' information technology systems to more
sophisticated security threats, and may be specifically targeted to our business or more general industry wide risks. Our information
technology networks, suppliers and related systems are essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations of our business.
While we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, there is no guarantee such efforts will be
successful in preventing or detecting a cyber-attack. Even the most well-protected information, networks, systems and facilities
remain vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted cybersecurity breaches evolve and generally are not recognized
until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we
may be unable to anticipate these techniques, implement adequate cybersecurity barriers or other preventative measures, or recover
from an attack without operational impact, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. In the past, we have
experienced cybersecurity breaches, which to date have not had a material impact on our operations; however, there is no assurance
that such impacts will not be material in the future. We must continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our
technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business, damage
our reputation, cause us to incur significant remediation expense and have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations. Cybersecurity breaches that compromise proprietary, personal identifying or confidential
information of our employees, operators, tenants and partners or result in operational disruptions could result in legal claims or
proceedings, including enforcement actions by regulators under data privacy regulations, such as the U.K. General Data Protection
Regulation which imposes administrative fines for serious breaches up to the greater of 4% of annual worldwide turnover or £17.5
million.
Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed 
Our success depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including our executive officers and other highly
qualified employees, and competition for their talents is intense. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel. We cannot
assure you that we will retain our key personnel or that we will be able to recruit and retain other highly qualified employees in the
future. Losing any key personnel could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and
results of operations. 
Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure 
We may become more leveraged 
Permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of debt and equity
securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. The incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become
more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make
us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, (4) negatively affect our credit
ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating agencies or (5) make us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates because of the
variable interest rates on some of our borrowings to the extent we have not entirely hedged such variable rate debt. 
Cash available for distributions to stockholders may be insufficient to make dividend contributions at expected levels and are
made at the discretion of the Board of Directors 
If cash available for distribution generated by our assets decreases due to dispositions or otherwise, we may be unable to make
dividend distributions at expected levels. Our inability to make expected distributions would likely result in a decrease in the
market price of our common stock. All distributions are made at the discretion of our Board of Directors in accordance with
Delaware law and depend on our earnings, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectation of our
future capital requirements and operating performance, restrictive covenants in our financial and other contractual arrangements,
maintenance of our REIT qualification, restrictions under Delaware law and other factors as our Board of Directors may deem
relevant from time to time. Additionally, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described
herein, or other significant adverse events, occur. 
36
We are subject to covenants in our debt agreements that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things, these provisions require
us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create
liens and make investments or acquisitions. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing
the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. These defaults could
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
Limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future investments or to meet our
obligations and commitments
We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and
commitments as they mature. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control,
including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions; the market’s perception of our growth potential and
our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our common stock and the credit
ratings of our debt securities; changes in the credit ratings on U.S. government debt securities; uncertainty from the expected
discontinuance of LIBOR and the transition to any other interest rate benchmark; and default or delay in payment by the U.S. of its
obligations. We also rely on the financial institutions that are parties to our revolving credit facilities. If these institutions become
capital constrained, tighten their lending standards or become insolvent or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing
requests from other borrowers within a short period of time, they may be unable or unwilling to honor their funding commitments
to us, which would adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facilities and, over time, could negatively impact our
ability to consummate acquisitions, repay indebtedness as it matures, fund capital expenditures or make distributions to our
stockholders. If our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could negatively impact our ability to acquire
properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund operations or make distributions to our stockholders.
Changes affecting the availability of the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) may have consequences for us that cannot
yet reasonably be predicted
We have outstanding debt, hedge agreements and receivable transactions with variable interest rates based on LIBOR. The
LIBOR benchmark has been subject of national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. In
November 2020, ICE Benchmark Administration, the administrator of LIBOR, with support of the United States Federal Reserve
and the United Kingdom's Financial Conduct Authority, announced plans to consult on ceasing publication of USD LIBOR on
December 31, 2021 for the one week and two month USD LIBOR tenors, and on June 30, 2023 for all other USD LIBOR tenors.
While this announcement extends the transition period, the United States Federal Reserve concurrently issued a statement advising
banks to stop new USD LIBOR issuances by the end of 2021. At this time, no consensus exists as to which reference rate or rates
or benchmarks may become acceptable alternatives to LIBOR. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee, which was convened
by the Federal Reserve Board and the New York Fed, has identified the Second Oversight Financing Rate as the recommended
alternative rate for LIBOR. These reforms may cause LIBOR to perform differently than in the past and LIBOR may ultimately
cease to exist after 2021. While it is not currently possible to determine precisely whether, or to what extent, the withdrawal and
replacement of LIBOR would affect us, the implementation of alternative benchmark rates to LIBOR may have an adverse effect
on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any new benchmark rate will likely not replicate LIBOR exactly,
which could impact contracts that terminate after 2023. There is uncertainty about how applicable law, the courts or we will address
the replacement of LIBOR with alternative rates on agreements that do not include alternative rate fallback provisions. In addition,
any changes to benchmark rates may have an uncertain impact on our cost of funds and our access to the capital markets, which
could impact our results of operations and cash flows. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes may also adversely
affect the trading market for our securities. Additional financing, therefore, may be unavailable, more expensive or restricted by the
terms of our outstanding indebtedness.
Downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our cost and availability of capital
We plan to manage the company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance
that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating
agencies could have a material adverse effect on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations, liquidity, cash flows, the trading/redemption price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our
debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our equity holders.
Increases in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our cost of capital
An increase in interest rates may increase interest cost on new and existing variable rate debt.  Such increases in the cost of
capital could adversely impact our ability to finance operations, acquire and develop properties, and refinance existing
debt. Additionally, increased interest rates may also result in less liquid property markets, limiting our ability to sell existing assets.
Risks Arising from Our Status as a REIT 
37
We might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT 
We intend to operate as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and believe we have
operated and will continue to operate in such a manner. If we lose our status as a REIT, we will face serious income tax
consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders
because:
•we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject
to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates;
•we would be subject to increased state and local taxes; and
•unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four
taxable    years following the year during which we were disqualified. 
Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them,
and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of U.S. federal and other income taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings
would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. If we do not qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make
distributions to stockholders, since a non-REIT is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain REIT status or
avoid an excise tax. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all distributions to stockholders will continue to be treated as
dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the
dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term
capital gains with respect to distributions. 
As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy
and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and
complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various
factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Although we
believe that we qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax
purposes. 
Certain subsidiaries might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT
We own interests in a number of entities which have elected to be taxed as REITs for U.S. federal income tax purposes, some of
which we consolidate for financial reporting purposes but each of which is treated as a separate REIT for federal income tax
purposes (each a “Subsidiary REIT”). To qualify as a REIT, each Subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT
qualification requirements under the Code, together with all other rules applicable to REITs. Provided that each Subsidiary REIT
qualifies as a REIT, our interests in the Subsidiary REITs will be treated as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT
asset tests. If a Subsidiary REIT fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, such Subsidiary REIT will be subject to federal and
state income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for the four subsequent taxable years. Any such failure could have an
adverse effect on our ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a REIT, unless we
are able to avail ourselves of certain relief provisions. 
The 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial
transactions 
To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make
distributions to our stockholders. Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to
satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid
assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement. This may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and
actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in
arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. In addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or
repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to
enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. In the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain
cash, we may borrow funds, even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings, issue additional
equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute
other property or securities or engage in other transactions intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements. This
may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. 
Our use of TRSs is limited under the Code
Under the Code, no more than 20% of the value of the gross assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more
TRSs. This limitation may affect our ability to increase the size of our TRSs’ operations and assets, and there can be no assurance
that we will be able to comply with the applicable limitation, or that such compliance will not adversely affect our business. Also,
our TRSs may not, among other things, operate or manage certain health care facilities, which may cause us to forgo investments
we might otherwise make. Finally, we may be subject to a 100% excise tax on the income derived from certain transactions with
our TRSs that are not on an arm's-length basis. We believe our arrangements with our TRSs are on arm's-length terms and intend to
continue to operate in a manner that allows us to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above, but there can be no
assurance that we will be able to avoid application of that tax.
38
The lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to special requirements
We lease certain qualified health care properties to taxable REIT subsidiaries (or limited liability companies of which the taxable
REIT subsidiaries are members), which lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care operations at
these properties. The rents from this taxable REIT subsidiary lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1)
they are paid pursuant to an arm's-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable REIT subsidiary and (2) the
manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor (as defined in the Code). If any of these conditions are not satisfied, then
the rents will not be qualifying rents. 
If certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) as “true leases,” we may be
subject to adverse tax consequences 
We have purchased certain properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may enter into similar
transactions in the future. We intend for any such sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will be
characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
However, depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the IRS might take the position that the transaction is not a “true
lease” but is more properly treated in some other manner. In the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and successfully
re-characterized by the IRS, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and cost recovery generally available
to an owner of property. Furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT
asset tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our REIT status effective with the year of re-characterization.
Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the REIT annual
distribution requirements for a taxable year. 
We could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to
additional tax liabilities 
We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Because the U.S. maintains a worldwide corporate tax system, the
foreign and U.S. tax systems are somewhat interdependent. Longstanding international norms that determine each country's
jurisdiction to tax cross-border international trade are evolving and could reduce the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to deduct for
foreign tax purposes the interest they pay on loans from us, thereby increasing the foreign tax liability of the subsidiaries; it is also
possible that foreign countries could increase their withholding taxes on dividends and interest.
Our effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates or
changes in tax laws or their interpretation. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the
IRS and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from
these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these
examinations. If we were subject to review or examination by the IRS or applicable foreign jurisdiction as the result of any new tax
law changes, the ultimate determination of which may change our taxes owed for an amount in excess of amounts previously
accrued or recorded, our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be adversely affected.
The present federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or
administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. The federal income
tax rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation and REITs are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative
process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations
and interpretations.
We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions might affect our investors or us. Revisions in
tax laws and interpretations thereof could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, as well as the tax
considerations relevant to an investment in us, could cause us to change our investments and commitments, and adversely affect
our earnings and cash flow.
Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments
None.
Item 2.  Properties 
We lease our corporate headquarters located at 4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio 43615. We also lease corporate offices throughout
the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom and Luxembourg and have ground leases relating to certain of our properties. The following
table sets forth certain information regarding the properties that comprise our consolidated real property and real estate loan
investments as of December 31, 2020 (dollars in thousands):
39
 Seniors Housing Operating Triple-net Outpatient Medical
Property LocationNumber of
PropertiesTotal
InvestmentAnnualized
RevenuesNumber of
PropertiesTotal
InvestmentAnnualized
RevenuesNumber of
PropertiesTotal
InvestmentAnnualized
Revenues
Alabama 2 $ 15,547 $ 5,955 2 $ 19,186 $ 2,562 2 $ 34,636 $ 4,626 
Arkansas — — — — — — 1 23,932 3,619 
Arizona 7 88,797 27,276 — — — 7 81,371 8,904 
California 78 2,828,278 578,066 23 455,370 64,088 39 943,263 73,657 
Colorado 12 440,994 82,385 11 276,364 29,041 3 32,331 5,464 
Connecticut 3 69,392 14,888 8 114,188 15,169 — — — 
District Of Columbia 2 81,008 9,534 — — — — — — 
Delaware 3 67,202 21,516 7 111,356 12,184 — 51,372 1,548 
Florida 7 351,736 58,586 51 567,485 57,614 24 228,424 42,292 
Geor gia 9 127,428 33,200 3 39,834 2,715 12 222,174 27,456 
Iowa 3 47,758 17,434 7 55,982 6,184 — — — 
Idaho 1 20,512 3,631 — — — 2 52,930 3,433 
Illinois 16 441,293 94,750 25 347,417 32,780 7 115,858 14,600 
Indiana 3 90,732 8,086 27 334,689 50,198 — — — 
Kansas 3 67,391 13,979 27 240,888 30,101 — — — 
Kentucky 2 36,324 11,374 6 57,010 7,042 — — — 
Louisiana 3 49,884 13,295 1 7,785 840 — — — 
Massachusetts 13 346,901 62,062 8 96,521 16,031 7 108,729 12,847 
Maryland 8 404,791 79,794 21 273,062 14,989 11 246,339 27,273 
Maine 1 23,988 11,866 — — — — — — 
Michigan 6 179,491 27,958 29 267,661 27,330 5 79,400 7,568 
Minnesota 3 81,102 11,252 11 227,346 27,666 7 150,504 29,941 
Missouri 3 68,961 11,294 1 11,752 69 12 197,889 23,962 
Mississippi 2 15,910 8,694 1 10,453 — 1 36,417 2,265 
Montana 1 5,749 4,451 — — — — — — 
North Carolina 3 111,536 18,502 51 384,336 56,361 24 410,779 32,576 
Nebraska — — — 4 28,806 4,728 2 31,536 4,406 
New Hampshire — — — 4 45,892 6,803 — — — 
New Jersey 28 709,757 177,237 40 734,164 58,934 13 340,1 11 48,302 
New Mexico 1 13,230 774 — — — — — — 
Nevada 6 105,538 24,727 1 18,154 3,327 9 144,490 10,057 
New Y ork 29 598,244 114,782 4 40,469 3,525 15 431,649 26,950 
Ohio 20 391,987 47,786 34 310,810 44,716 5 88,341 8,944 
Oklahoma 2 28,900 1,781 20 213,073 25,723 1 14,354 2,085 
Oregon 8 88,469 15,034 1 2,671 818 1 44,609 2,730 
Pennsylvania 15 223,050 59,129 70 743,994 112,934 4 75,136 6,966 
South Carolina 1 4,029 4,697 8 36,765 3,181 2 10,364 1,570 
Tennessee 2 46,751 13,832 4 36,721 3,985 5 130,646 13,381 
Texas 47 1,169,494 231,006 24 323,695 48,740 55 1,112,114 113,178 
Utah 3 68,458 15,628 1 22,993 2,103 — — — 
Virginia 5 274,569 72,707 26 272,615 34,368 6 114,942 13,617 
Washington 23 498,147 101,953 7 91,264 10,254 9 207,224 28,552 
Wisconsin 2 19,298 4,816 4 68,135 8,905 5 91,270 9,367 
West V irginia — — — 3 35,159 4,648 — — — 
Total domestic 386 10,302,626 2,115,717 575 6,924,065 830,656 296 5,853,134 612,136 
Canada 106 2,137,818 426,383 6 144,937 10,192 — — — 
United Kingdom 64 2,107,965 342,293 60 831,038 110,363 — 173,364 11,667 
Total international 170 4,245,783 768,676 66 975,975 120,555 — 173,364 11,667 
Grand total 556 $14,548,409 $ 2,884,393 641 $ 7,900,040 $ 951,21 1 296 $ 6,026,498 $ 623,803 
 Represents revenue for the month ended December 31, 2020 annualized.
The following table sets forth occupancy and average annualized revenues for certain property types (excluding investments in
unconsolidated entities):(1) (1) (1)
(1)
40
 Occupancy Average Annualized Revenues  
 2020 2019 2020 2019  
Seniors Housing Operating 77.4% 86.9% $ 52,280 $ 56,329 per unit
Triple-net 72.7% 84.3% 15,291 14,578 per bed/unit
Outpatient Medical 94.9% 94.1% 36 34 per sq. ft.
 We use unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate occupancy for properties other than Outpatient Medical
buildings and have not independently verified the information.
 Represents December annualized revenues divided by total beds, units or square feet as presented in the tables above.
 Occupancy represents average occupancy for the three months ended December 31.
 Occupancy represents average quarterly operating occupancy based on the quarters ended September 30 and excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or
for which data is not available or meaningful.
 Occupancy represents the percentage of total rentable square feet leased and occupied (including month-to-month and holdover leases and excluding
terminations) as of December 31.
The following table sets forth information regarding lease expirations for certain portions of our portfolio as of December 31,
2020 (dollars in thousands):
 Expiration Year
 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 Thereafter
Triple-net:            
Properties 6 9 2 4 28 67 18 15 15 23 433 
Base rent $ 9,020 $ 6,503 $ 840 $11,431 $ 5,968 $85,929 $36,129 $22,587 $31,309 $44,598 $448,545 
% of base
rent 1.3 % 0.9 % 0.1 % 1.6 % 0.8 % 12.2 % 5.1 % 3.2 % 4.5 % 6.3 % 64.0 %
Units 877 942 222 692 1,759 5,089 2,350 1,633 1,429 2,439 44,576 
% of units 1.4 % 1.5 % 0.4 % 1.1 % 2.8 % 8.2 % 3.8 % 2.6 % 2.3 % 3.9 % 72.0 %
Outpatient
Medical:            
Square feet 1,507,450 1,571,222 1,750,045 1,892,217 1,024,825 1,046,414 994,202 870,878 714,632 1,394,936 3,668,425 
Base rent $44,135 $47,043 $48,626 $57,471 $28,244 $28,049 $25,384 $22,168 $20,494 $34,637 $ 79,937 
% of base
rent 10.1 % 10.8 % 11.1 % 13.2 % 6.5 % 6.4 % 5.8 % 5.1 % 4.7 % 7.9 % 18.4 %
Leases 375 326 360 293 211 166 129 113 71 89 125 
% of leases 16.6 % 14.4 % 15.9 % 13.0 % 9.3 % 7.4 % 5.7 % 5.0 % 3.1 % 3.9 % 5.7 %
 Excludes investments in unconsolidated entities, developments, land parcels, loans receivable and sub-leases. Investments classified as held for sale are included in 2021.
 The most recent monthly cash base rent annualized. Base rent does not include tenant recoveries or amortization of above and below market lease intangibles or other non-cash income.
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
From time to time, there are various legal proceedings pending against us that arise in the ordinary course of our business. 
Management does not believe that the resolution of any of these legal proceedings either individually or in the aggregate will have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Further, from time to time, we are party to
certain legal proceedings for which third parties, such as tenants, operators and/or managers are contractually obligated to
indemnify, defend and hold us harmless. In some of these matters, the indemnitors have insurance for the potential damages.  In
other matters, we are being defended by tenants and other obligated third parties and these indemnitors may not have sufficient
insurance, assets, income or resources to satisfy their defense and indemnification obligations to us. The unfavorable resolution of
such legal proceedings could, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect the indemnitors’ ability to satisfy their
respective obligations to us, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial
condition. It is management’s opinion that there are currently no such legal proceedings pending that will, individually or in the
aggregate, have such a material adverse effect. Despite management’s view of the ultimate resolution of these legal proceedings, we
may have significant legal expenses and costs associated with the defense of such matters. Further, management cannot predict the
outcome of these legal proceedings and if management’s expectation regarding such matters is not correct, such proceedings could
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
None.(1) (2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(2)
41
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:WELL). There were 3,335 stockholders of record as of
January 29, 2021.
Stockholder Return Performance Presentation 
Set forth below is a line graph comparing the yearly percentage change and the cumulative total stockholder return on our shares
of common stock against the cumulative total return of the S&P Composite-500 Stock Index and the FTSE NAREIT Equity Index.
As of December 31, 2020, 153 companies comprised the FTSE NAREIT Equity Index, which consists of REITs identified by
NAREIT as equity (those REITs which have at least 75% of their investments in real property). The data are based on the closing
prices as of December 31 for each of the five years. 2015 equals $100 and dividends are assumed to be reinvested.
 12/31/2015 12/31/2016 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2019 12/31/2020
S & P 500 $ 100.00 $ 113.51 $ 138.29 $ 132.23 $ 173.86 $ 202.96 
Welltower Inc. 100.00 97.45 97.65 112.59 138.52 121.24 
FTSE NAREIT
Equity 100.00 111.99 117.84 112.39 141.61 126.25 
Except to the extent that we specifically incorporate this information by reference, the foregoing Stockholder Return
Performance Presentation shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general statement incorporating by reference this
Annual Report on Form 10-K into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended. This information shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts.
During the three months ended December 31, 2020, we acquired shares of our common stock held by employees who tendered
shares to satisfy tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of previously issued restricted stock awards. Specifically, the number
of shares of common stock acquired from employees and the average prices paid per share for each month in the fourth quarter
ended December 31, 2020 are as shown in the table below.
On May 1, 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program whereby we may repurchase up to $1 billion of
common stock through December 31, 2021 (the "Repurchase Program"). Under this authorization, we are not required to purchase
shares but may choose to do so in the open market or through private transactions at times and amounts based on our evaluation of
market conditions and other factors. We expect to finance any share repurchases under the Repurchase Program using available
cash and may use proceeds from borrowings or debt offerings. We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during the
three months ended December 31, 2020.
42
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
PeriodTotal Number of
Shares PurchasedAverage Price Paid
Per ShareTotal Number of Shares
Purchased as Part of
Publicly Announced
Repurchase ProgramMaximum Dollar Value of
Shares that May Yet Be
Purchased Under the
Repurchase Program
October 1, 2020 through October 31, 2020 — $ — — $ — 
November 1, 2020 through November 30, 2020 44 58.13 — — 
December 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020 166,969 65.72 — — 
Totals 167,013 $ 65.72 — $ 992,348,000 
Item 6. Selected Financial Data
The following selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 2020 are derived from our audited consolidated
financial statements (in thousands, except per share data):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Operating Data      
Total revenues $ 4,281,160 $ 4,316,641 $ 4,700,499 $ 5,121,306 $ 4,605,967 
Total expenses 3,571,907 4,017,025 4,277,009 4,578,414 4,637,519 
Income from continuing operations before income taxes
and other items 709,253 299,616 423,490 542,892 (31,552)
Income tax (expense) benefit 19,128 (20,128) (8,674) (2,957) (9,968)
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (10,357) (83,125) (641) 42,434 (8,083)
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 364,046 344,250 415,575 748,041 1,088,455 
Income from continuing operations 1,082,070 540,613 829,750 1,330,410 1,038,852 
Net income 1,082,070 540,613 829,750 1,330,410 1,038,852 
Preferred stock dividends 65,406 49,410 46,704 — — 
Preferred stock redemption charge — 9,769 — — — 
Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 4,267 17,839 24,796 97,978 60,008 
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 1,012,397 $ 463,595 $ 758,250 $ 1,232,432 $ 978,844 
Other Data  
Average number of common shares outstanding:  
Basic 358,275 367,237 373,620 401,845 415,451 
Diluted 360,227 369,001 375,250 403,808 417,387 
Per Share Data  
Basic:  
Income from continuing operations $ 3.02 $ 1.47 $ 2.22 $ 3.31 $ 2.50 
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 2.83 $ 1.26 $ 2.03 $ 3.07 $ 2.36 
Diluted:  
Income from continuing operations $ 3.00 $ 1.47 $ 2.21 $ 3.29 $ 2.49 
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 2.81 $ 1.26 $ 2.02 $ 3.05 $ 2.33 
Cash distributions per common share $ 3.44 $ 3.48 $ 3.48 $ 3.48 $ 2.70 
 December 31,
Balance Sheet Data 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Net real estate investments $ 26,563,629 $ 26,171,077 $ 28,420,769 $ 31,119,271 $ 28,474,947 
Total assets 28,865,184 27,944,445 30,342,072 33,380,751 32,483,642 
Total debt and lease obligations 12,358,245 11,731,936 13,297,144 15,388,765 14,216,986 
Total liabilities 13,185,279 12,643,799 14,331,427 16,398,247 15,258,580 
Total preferred stock 1,006,250 718,503 718,498 — — 
Total equity 15,281,472 14,925,452 15,586,599 16,506,627 16,881,572 
 Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP unitholders.
 Effective January 1, 2019, we adopted new guidance on leases using the prospective method.(1)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(2)
43
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
  
Company Overview 45
Business Strategy 46
Key Transactions 47
Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties 48
Corporate Governance 49
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
  
Sources and Uses of Cash 49
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 50
Contractual Obligations 51
Capital Structure 51
  
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  
Summary 52
Seniors Housing Operating 53
Triple-net 55
Outpatient Medical 57
Non-Segment/Corporate 59
  
OTHER
  
Non-GAAP Financial Measures 60
Critical Accounting Policies 65
 
44
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion and analysis is based primarily on the consolidated financial statements of Welltower Inc. presented in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) for the periods presented and should be read
together with the notes thereto contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other important factors are identified in “Item 1 —
Business” and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” above.
Executive Summary
Company Overview
Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care
infrastructure. The company invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the
real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care
experience. Welltower™, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth
markets in the United States (“U.S.”), Canada and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), consisting of seniors housing and post-acute
communities and outpatient medical properties. 
The following table summarizes our consolidated portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2020 (dollars in thousands):
  Percentage of Number of
Type of Property NOI NOI Properties
Seniors Housing Operating $ 755,552 37.6 % 556
Triple-net 748,121 37.2 % 641
Outpatient Medical 505,071 25.2 % 296
Totals $ 2,008,744 100.0 % 1,493 
 Represents consolidated net operating income ("NOI") and excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated entities. Entities in which we have a joint venture
with a minority partner are shown at 100% of the joint venture amount. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and reconciliation.
The COVID-19 pandemic has had and may continue to have material and adverse effects on our financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows in the future. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our operations and those of our
operators and tenants will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence,
including the scope, severity and duration of the pandemic, the effectiveness and availability of vaccines and the success of
ongoing vaccination deployment efforts in our facilities and the geographic areas in which we operate, the actions taken to contain
the pandemic or mitigate its impact and the direct and indirect economic effects of the pandemic and containment measures, among
others.
Our Seniors Housing Operating revenues are dependent on occupancy. While admission bans were lifted across our portfolio
during the second and third quarter, with the ramp up of COVID-19 cases in the general community in the fourth quarter,
admissions bans, both government-imposed and voluntary bans adopted by operators, have been reinstated in many locations which
have significantly affected occupancy rates. Occupancy has consistently declined since the beginning of the pandemic to 76.2% as
of December 31, 2020. Through February 5, 2021, total occupancy declined an additional 180 basis points to 74.4%. Occupancy
metrics represents approximate spot occupancy as reported by our operators for properties in operation as of February 29, 2020,
including unconsolidated properties but excluding acquisitions, executed dispositions and development conversions since such
date.
We have incurred increased operational costs as a result of the introduction of public health measures and other regulations
affecting our properties, as well as additional health and safety measures adopted by us and our operators related to the COVID-19
pandemic, including increases in labor, personal protective equipment and sanitation. We expect total Seniors Housing Operating
expenses to remain elevated during the pandemic and potentially beyond as these additional health and safety measures become
standard practice.
Our Triple-net operators are experiencing similar occupancy declines and operating costs as described above with respect to our
Seniors Housing Operating properties. However, long-term/post-acute care facilities are generally experiencing a higher degree of
occupancy declines. These factors may continue to impact the ability of our Triple-net operators to make contractual rent payments
to us in the future. Many of our Triple-net operators received funds under the Coronavirus Aid Relief, and Economic Security Act
(“CARES Act”) Paycheck Protection Program. In addition, operators of long-term/post-acute care facilities have generally received
funds from Phase 1 of the Provider Relief Fund and operators of assisted living facilities have or are expected to receive funds from
Phase 2 of the Provider Relief Fund. Accordingly, collection of Triple-net rent due during the COVID-19 pandemic to date (from
March to December) has generally been consistent with historical collection rates and no significant rent concessions or deferrals
have been made.(1)
(1)
45
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Our Outpatient Medical tenants have experienced temporary medical practice closures or decreases in revenue due to
government-imposed restrictions on elective medical procedures, stay at home orders or decisions by patients to delay treatments
which may continue to adversely affect their ability to make contractual rent payments. These factors have and may continue to
cause operators or tenants to seek modifications of such obligations, resulting in reductions in revenue and increases in
uncollectible receivables. We will continue to evaluate each request on a case-by-case basis and determine if a form of rent relief is
warranted following an examination of the tenant’s financial health, rent coverage, current operating situation and other factors.
Outpatient Medical rent collections through March were generally consistent with pre COVID-19 levels. During the second
quarter we executed short term rent deferrals with certain Outpatient Medical tenants which in most cases were required to be
repaid by year end. Since then we have collected approximately 99% of Outpatient Medical rent due in the second half of the year,
with uncollected amounts primarily attributable to local jurisdictions with COVID-19 related ordinances providing temporary rent
relief to tenants. Furthermore, collections of deferred rent due under executed deferrals was over 99%. To the extent that deferred
rent is not repaid as expected, or the prolonged impact of the COVID-19 pandemic causes operators or tenants to seek further
modifications of their lease agreements, we may recognize reductions in revenue and increases in uncollectible receivables.
As a result of uncertainty regarding the length and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of the pandemic on our
business and related industries, our investments in and acquisitions of seniors housing and health care properties, as well as our
ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results in the future, may be limited. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic,
acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2020 declined compared to recent years. Additionally, we undertook certain
opportunistic disposals to enhance near-term liquidity. We have a significant development portfolio as of December 31, 2020. To
date we have only experienced minor construction and licensing delays with respect to our development portfolio, but may
experience more significant delays in the future. Such disruptions to acquisition, disposition and development activity may
negatively impact our long-term competitive position.
Business Strategy
Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash
dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in
NOI and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and health care real
estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location.
Substantially all of our revenues are derived from operating lease rentals, resident fees and services and interest earned on
outstanding loans receivable. These items represent our primary sources of liquidity to fund distributions and depend upon the
continued ability of our obligors to make contractual rent and interest payments to us and the profitability of our operating
properties. To the extent that our obligors/partners experience operating difficulties and become unable to generate sufficient cash
to make payments or operating distributions to us, there could be a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of
operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. To mitigate this risk, we monitor our investments through a variety of methods
determined by the type of property. Our asset management process for seniors housing properties generally includes review of
monthly financial statements and other operating data for each property, review of obligor/partner creditworthiness, property
inspections and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our
internal property management division manages and monitors the outpatient medical portfolio with a comprehensive process
including review of tenant relations, lease expirations, the mix of health service providers, hospital/health system relationships,
property performance, capital improvement needs and market conditions among other things. We evaluate the operating
environment in each property’s market to determine the likely trend in operating performance of the facility. When we identify
unacceptable trends, we seek to mitigate, eliminate or transfer the risk. Through these efforts, we generally aim to intervene at an
early stage to address any negative trends, and in so doing, support both the collectability of revenue and the value of our
investment.
In addition to our asset management and research efforts, we also aim to structure our relevant investments to mitigate payment
risk. Operating leases and loans are normally credit enhanced by guarantees and/or letters of credit. In addition, operating leases are
typically structured as master leases and loans are generally cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other real estate loans,
operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor and its affiliates.
For the year ended December 31, 2020, resident fees and services and rental income represented 67% and 31%, respectively, of
total revenues. Substantially all of our operating leases are designed with escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental
escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental
income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due
for the period. Our yield on loans receivable depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, the average
principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate adjustments.
Our primary sources of cash include resident fees and services, rent and interest receipts, borrowings under our unsecured
revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, public issuances of debt and equity securities, proceeds from investment
dispositions and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include dividend distributions,
46
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
debt service payments (including principal and interest), real property investments (including acquisitions, capital expenditures,
construction advances and transaction costs), loan advances, property operating expenses, general and administrative expenses and
other expenses. Depending upon the availability and cost of external capital, we believe our liquidity is sufficient to fund these uses
of cash.
We also continuously evaluate opportunities to finance future investments. New investments are generally funded from
temporary borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, internally generated cash and
the proceeds from investment dispositions. Our investments generate cash from NOI and principal payments on loans receivable.
Permanent financing for future investments, which replaces funds drawn under our unsecured revolving credit facility and
commercial paper program, has historically been provided through a combination of the issuance of public debt and equity
securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt.
Depending upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in the future with spreads over our cost of
capital that will generate appropriate returns to our stockholders. It is also likely that investment dispositions may occur in the
future. To the extent that investment dispositions exceed new investments, our revenues and cash flows from operations could be
adversely affected. We expect to reinvest the proceeds from any investment dispositions in new investments. To the extent that new
investment requirements exceed our available cash on-hand, we expect to borrow under our unsecured revolving credit facility and
commercial paper program. During 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we were strategic and opportunistic in disposing
of certain real estate which provided significant near term liquidity. At December 31, 2020, we had $1,545,046,000 of cash and
cash equivalents, $475,997,000 of restricted cash and $3,000,000,000 of available borrowing capacity under our unsecured
revolving credit facility.
Key Transactions
Capital  The following summarizes key capital transactions that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2020:
•In April 2020, we closed on a $1.0 billion two-year unsecured term loan. The term loan bears interest at a rate of 1-month
LIBOR + 1.20%, based on our credit rating.
•In June 2020, we completed the issuance of $600,000,000 senior unsecured notes bearing interest at 2.75% with a maturity
date of January 2031. Net proceeds were used to fund tender offers for $426,248,000 of our 3.75% senior unsecured notes
due 2023 and our 3.95% senior unsecured notes due 2023 which settled on July 1, 2020. The remaining proceeds were
used to reduce borrowings under our term loan by $140,000,000.
•We sold 2,128,000 shares of common stock under our ATM and DRIP programs, primarily in the first quarter, via both
cash settle and forward sale agreements, generating gross proceeds of approximately $175,484,000. The sale of these
shares and settlement of previously outstanding forward sales resulted in gross proceeds of approximately $607,177,000
which were used to reduce borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility.
•We extinguished $632,288,000 of secured debt at a blended average interest rate of 2.21% throughout 2020.
Investments The following summarizes property acquisitions and joint venture investments completed during the year ended
December 31, 2020 (dollars in thousands):
 Properties Investment Amount Capitalization Rates Book Amount
Seniors Housing Operating 26 $ 574,793 3.5% $ 610,857 
Triple-net 11 88,908 6.5% 90,731 
Outpatient Medical 17 246,516 6.1% 249,312 
Totals 54 $ 910,217 4.5% $ 950,900 
 Represents stated pro rata purchase price including cash and any assumed debt but excludes fair value adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP.
 Represents annualized contractual or projected NOI to be received in cash divided by investment amounts.
 Represents amounts recorded in real property including fair value adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for
additional information.
Dispositions The following summarizes property dispositions completed during the year ended December 31, 2020 (dollars in
thousands):
 Properties Proceeds Capitalization Rates Book Amount
Seniors Housing Operating 31 $ 1,282,439 4.8% $ 1,289,769 
Triple-net 8 109,439 7.9% 51,666 
Outpatient Medical 108 2,324,062 5.6% 1,755,864 
Totals 147 $ 3,715,940 5.4% $ 3,097,299 
 Represents pro rata proceeds received upon disposition including any seller financing.
 Represents annualized contractual income that was being received in cash at date of disposition divided by disposition proceeds.
 Represents carrying value of net real estate assets at time of disposition. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.(1) (2) (3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1) (2) (3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
47
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Dividends On February 9, 2021, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend for the quarter ended December 31, 2020 of
$0.61 per share, consistent with the cash dividends for the quarters ended September 30, June 30 and March 31, 2020, representing
a 30% decrease from the $0.87 per share dividend for the quarter ended December 31, 2019. The dividend declaration represents
the 199 consecutive quarterly dividend payment.
Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties
We utilize several key performance indicators to evaluate the various aspects of our business. These indicators are discussed
below and relate to operating performance, credit strength and concentration risk. Management uses these key performance
indicators to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical operating results, in making operating decisions, and for
budget planning purposes.
Operating Performance We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders (“NICS”) per the
Statement of Comprehensive Income are the most appropriate earnings measures. Other useful supplemental measures of our
operating performance include funds from operations attributable to common stockholders (“FFO”) and consolidated net operating
income (“NOI”); however, these supplemental measures are not defined by U.S. GAAP. Please refer to the section entitled “Non-
GAAP Financial Measures” for further discussion and reconciliations. These earnings measures are widely used by investors and
analysts in the valuation, comparison and investment recommendations of companies. The following table reflects the recent
historical trends of our operating performance measures for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Net income $ 1,038,852 $ 1,330,410 $ 829,750 
Net income attributable to common stockholders 978,844 1,232,432 758,250 
Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders 1,102,562 1,577,080 1,392,183 
Consolidated net operating income 2,008,144 2,431,264 2,267,482 
Credit Strength We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios indicate
how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to long-term debt, net of cash and Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) Section
1031 deposits. The coverage ratios indicate our ability to service interest and fixed charges (interest, secured debt principal
amortization and preferred dividends). We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain a
capital structure consistent with our current profile. The coverage ratios are based on adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization (“Adjusted EBITDA”). Please refer to the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for
further discussion and reconciliation of these measures. Leverage ratios and coverage ratios are widely used by investors, analysts
and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, investment recommendations and rating of companies. The following table
reflects the recent historical trends for our credit strength measures for the periods presented:
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Net debt to book capitalization ratio 40.9% 46.5% 45.0%
Net debt to undepreciated book capitalization ratio 33.8% 39.4% 37.8%
Net debt to market capitalization ratio 29.7% 29.6% 31.3%
Adjusted interest coverage ratio 3.97x 4.14x 4.11x
Adjusted fixed char ge coverage ratio 3.54x 3.78x 3.44x
Concentration Risk We evaluate our concentration risk in terms of NOI by property mix, relationship mix and geographic mix.
Concentration risk is a valuable measure in understanding what portion of our NOI could be at risk if certain sectors were to
experience downturns. Property mix measures the portion of our NOI that relates to our various property types. Relationship mix
measures the portion of our NOI that relates to our current top five relationships. Geographic mix measures the portion of our NOI
that relates to our current top five states (or international equivalents). The following table reflects our recent historical trends of
concentration risk by NOI for the years indicated below:                            th
48
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Property mix:    
 Seniors Housing Operating 38% 43% 43%
 Triple-net 37% 38% 40%
 Outpatient Medical 25% 19% 17%
Relationship mix:    
 Sunrise Senior Living 13% 14% 15%
ProMedica 11% 9% 4%
 Revera 5% 6% 7%
 Avery Healthcare 4% 3% 3%
 Sagora Senior Living 3% 3% 3%
 Remaining 64% 65% 68%
Geographic mix:    
 California 14% 13% 14%
 United Kingdom 10% 8% 9%
 Texas 9% 8% 8%
 Canada 6% 7% 7%
 Pennsylvania 6% 6% 5%
 Remaining 55% 58% 57%
 Excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated entities and non-segment/corporate NOI. Entities in which we have a joint venture with a minority partner are shown at 100% of the
joint venture amount.
 Revera owns a controlling interest in Sunrise Senior Living.
We evaluate our key performance indicators in conjunction with current expectations to determine if historical trends are
indicative of future results. Our expected results may not be achieved and actual results may differ materially from our
expectations. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results are described in more detail in “Item 1 —
Business — Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” and other sections of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management regularly monitors economic and other factors to develop strategic and tactical
plans designed to improve performance and maximize our competitive position. Our ability to achieve our financial objectives is
dependent upon our ability to effectively execute these plans and to appropriately respond to emerging economic and company-
specific trends. Please refer to “Item 1 — Business,” “Item 1A — Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further
discussion of these risk factors.
Corporate Governance
Maintaining investor confidence and trust is important in today’s business environment. Our Board of Directors and management
are strongly committed to policies and procedures that reflect the highest level of ethical business practices. Our corporate
governance guidelines provide the framework for our business operations and emphasize our commitment to increase stockholder
value while meeting all applicable legal requirements. These guidelines meet the listing standards adopted by the New York Stock
Exchange and are available on the Internet at www.welltower.com/investors/governance. The information on our website is not
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference
only.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Sources and Uses of Cash
Our primary sources of cash include resident fees and services, rent and interest receipts, borrowings under our unsecured
revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, public issuances of debt and equity securities, proceeds from investment
dispositions and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include dividend distributions, debt service
payments (including principal and interest), real property investments (including acquisitions, capital expenditures, construction
advances and transaction costs), loan advances, property operating expenses, general and administrative expenses and other
expenses. These sources and uses of cash are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and are discussed in further
detail below. The following is a summary of our sources and uses of cash flows for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):(1)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(2)
49
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31,December 31,  December 31,    
 2020 2019 $ % 2018 $ % $ %
Cash, cash equivalents and
restricted cash at beginning of
period $ 385,766 $ 316,129 $ 69,637 22 %$ 309,303 $ 6,826 2 %$ 76,463 25 %
Net cash provided from (used
in):  
Operating activities 1,364,756 1,535,968 (171,212) -11 % 1,583,944 (47,976) -3 % (219,188) -14 %
Investing activities 2,347,928 (2,048,791) 4,396,719 n/a (2,386,471) 337,680 -14 % 4,734,399 n/a
Financing activities (2,080,858) 577,150 (2,658,008) n/a 818,368 (241,218) -29 % (2,899,226) n/a
Effect of foreign currency
translation 3,451 5,310 (1,859) -35 % (9,015) 14,325 n/a 12,466 n/a
Cash, cash equivalents and
restricted cash at end of
period $2,021,043 $ 385,766 $1,635,277 424 %$ 316,129 $ 69,637 22 %$1,704,914 539 %
Operating Activities The changes in net cash provided from operating activities are primarily attributable to declines in revenue
and increases in property operating expenses, as well as the impact of short-term deferrals granted as a result of the COVID-19
pandemic in 2020. Please see “Results of Operations” for discussion of net income fluctuations. For the years ended December 31,
2020, 2019 and 2018, cash flows from operations exceeded cash distributions to stockholders.
Investing Activities  The changes in net cash used in investing activities are primarily attributable to net changes in real property
investments and dispositions, loans receivable and investments in unconsolidated entities which are summarized above in “Key
Transactions.” Please refer to Notes 3 and 5 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information. The following is a
summary of cash used in non-acquisition capital improvement activities for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,  December 31,    
 2020 2019 $ % 2018 $ % $ %
New development $ 201,336 $ 323,488 $(122,152) -38 %$ 160,706 $162,782 101 %$40,630 25 %
Recurring capital
expenditures, tenant
improvements and lease
commissions 83,146 136,535 (53,389) -39 % 90,190 46,345 51 % (7,044) -8 %
Renovations, redevelopments
and other capital
improvements 161,843 192,289 (30,446) -16 % 175,993 16,296 9 % (14,150) -8 %
Total $ 446,325 $ 652,312 $(205,987) -32 %$ 426,889 $225,423 53 %$19,436 5 %
The change in new development is primarily due to the number and size of construction projects on-going during the relevant
periods. Renovations, redevelopments and other capital improvements include expenditures to maximize property value, increase
net operating income, maintain a market-competitive position and/or achieve property stabilization. 
Financing Activities The changes in net cash provided from/used in financing activities are primarily attributable to changes
related to our long-term debt arrangements, the issuances of common stock and dividend payments which are summarized above in
“Key Transactions.” Please refer to Notes 10, 11 and 14 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
On April 1, 2020, in response to uncertain financial market conditions arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, we undertook steps
to strengthen our balance sheet and to enhance our liquidity by entering into a $1.0 billion two-year unsecured term loan.
Additionally, on June 30, 2020, we completed the issuance of $600,000,000 senior unsecured notes with a maturity date of January
2031. Net proceeds were used to fund tender offers for $426,248,000 of our 3.75% senior unsecured notes due 2023 and our 3.95%
senior unsecured notes due 2023, which settled on July 1, 2020. The remaining proceeds were used to reduce borrowings under the
term loan by $140,000,000. As of December 31, 2020, we have total near-term available liquidity of approximately $4.5 billion.
However, we are unable to accurately predict the full impact that the pandemic will have on our results from operations, financial
condition, liquidity and cash flows due to numerous factors discussed in Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
At December 31, 2020, we had investments in unconsolidated entities with our ownership generally ranging from 10% to 65%.
We use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate exposure. At December 31, 2020,
we had nine outstanding letter of credit obligations. Please see Notes 8, 12 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements for
additional information.
50
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Contractual Obligations
The following table summarizes our payment requirements under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2020 (in
thousands):
 Payments Due by Period
Contractual Obligations Total 2021 2022-2023 2024-2025 Thereafter
Senior unsecured notes and term credit
facilities:     
U.S. Dollar senior unsecured notes $ 8,273,752 $ — $ 673,752 $ 2,600,000 $ 5,000,000 
     Canadian Dollar senior unsecured notes 235,239 — — — 235,239 
     Pounds Sterling senior unsecured notes 1,434,510 — — — 1,434,510 
U.S. Dollar term credit facility 1,370,000 — 1,370,000 — — 
     Canadian Dollar term credit facility 196,032 — 196,032 — — 
Secured debt:     
Consolidated 2,378,073 451,038 833,433 397,785 695,817 
     Unconsolidated  1,064,949 54,073 206,924 557,508 246,444 
Contractual interest obligations:     
     Senior unsecured notes and term loans 3,872,398 423,475 816,492 651,101 1,981,330 
     Consolidated secured debt 309,885 72,990 101,412 58,755 76,728 
     Unconsolidated secured debt 200,426 35,099 65,01 1 42,031 58,285 
Financing lease liabilities 197,427 8,777 78,026 2,950 107,674 
Operating lease obligations 1,002,538 20,316 38,133 33,955 910,134 
Purchase obligations 784,797 399,771 309,660 65,920 9,446 
Total contractual obligations $ 21,320,026 $ 1,465,539 $ 4,688,875 $ 4,410,005 $ 10,755,607 
 Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not reflect unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets.
 Based on foreign currency exchange rates in effect as of balance sheet date.
 Based on variable interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2020.
 See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
 See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Capital Structure
Please refer to “Credit Strength” above for a discussion of our leverage and coverage ratio trends. Our debt agreements contain
various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Certain agreements require us to maintain financial ratios and minimum net
worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of
December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements. None of our debt agreements
contain provisions for acceleration which could be triggered by our debt ratings. However, under our primary unsecured credit
facility, the ratings on our senior unsecured notes are used to determine the fees and interest charged. We plan to manage the
company to maintain compliance with our debt covenants and with a capital structure consistent with our current profile. Any
downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and
availability of capital, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or
financial condition.
On May 17, 2018, we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (1) an open-ended automatic or “universal” shelf
registration statement covering an indeterminate amount of future offerings of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock,
depositary shares, warrants and units and (2) a registration statement in connection with our enhanced dividend reinvestment plan
(“DRIP”) under which we may issue up to 15,000,000 shares of common stock. As of January 29, 2021, 2,541,750 shares of
common stock remained available for issuance under the DRIP registration statement. On February 25, 2019, we entered into
separate amended and restated equity distribution agreements with each of Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc.,
Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC,
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, MUFG
Securities Americas Inc., RBC Capital Markets, LLC, UBS Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC relating to the offer
and sale from time to time of up to $1,500,000,000 aggregate amount of our common stock (“Equity Shelf Program”). The Equity
Shelf Program also allows us to enter into forward sale agreements. As of January 29, 2021, we had $499,341,000 of remaining
capacity under the Equity Shelf Program and there were no outstanding forward sales agreements. Depending upon market
conditions, we anticipate issuing securities under our registration statements to invest in additional properties and to repay
borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program.
On May 1, 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program whereby we may repurchase up to $1 billion of
common stock through December 31, 2021 (the "Repurchase Program"). Under this authorization, we are not required to purchase
shares but may choose to do so in the open market or through private transactions at times and amounts based on our(1)
(2)
(2)
(2)
(1,2)
(3)
(2)
(2)
(2)
(4)
(4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
51
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
evaluation of market conditions and other factors. We expect to finance any share repurchases under the Repurchase Program using
available cash and may use proceeds from borrowings or debt offerings.
Results of Operations
Summary
Our primary sources of revenue include resident fees and services, rent and interest income. Our primary expenses include
property operating expenses, depreciation and amortization, interest expense, general and administrative expenses, and other
expenses. We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three business segments: Seniors Housing Operating,
Triple-net and Outpatient Medical. The primary performance measures for our properties are NOI and same store NOI ("SSNOI")
and other supplemental measures include FFO and Adjusted EBITDA, which are further discussed below. Please see "Non-GAAP
Financial Measures" for additional information and reconciliations related to these supplemental measures. 
This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2020 and 2019 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019.
Discussions of 2018 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be
found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019.
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the periods presented (dollars in thousands, except per share
amounts):
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,   December 31,     
 2020 2019 Amount % 2018 Amount % Amount %
Net income $ 1,038,852 $ 1,330,410 $(291,558) -22 %$ 829,750 $ 500,660 60 %$ 209,102 25 %
NICS 978,844 1,232,432 (253,588) -21 % 758,250 474,182 63 % 220,594 29 %
FFO 1,102,562 1,577,080 (474,518) -30 % 1,392,183 184,897 13 % (289,621) -21 %
Adjusted EBITDA 2,048,412 2,328,202 (279,790) -12 % 2,153,005 175,197 8 % (104,593) -5 %
Consolidated NOI 2,008,144 2,431,264 (423,120) -17 % 2,267,482 163,782 7 % (259,338) -11 %
Per share data (fully diluted):       
Net income attributable to
common
stockholders $ 2.33 $ 3.05 $ (0.72) -24 %$ 2.02 $ 1.03 51 %$ 0.31 15 %
Funds from operations attributable
to
common stockholders $ 2.64 $ 3.91 $ (1.27) -32 %$ 3.71 $ 0.20 5 %$ (1.07) -29 %
Adjusted interest coverage ratio 3.97x 4.14x -0.17x -4 % 4.11x 0.03x 1 % -0.14x -3 %
Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio 3.54x 3.78x -0.24x -6 % 3.44x 0.34x 10 % 0.10x 3 %
 Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP unitholders.
The following table represents the changes in outstanding common stock for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31,
2020 (in thousands):
 Year Ended  
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 Totals
Beginning balance 410,257 383,675 371,732 371,732 
Dividend reinvestment plan issuances 264 5,799 6,529 12,592 
Preferred stock conversions — 12,712 — 12,712 
Option exercises — 11 57 68 
Equity Shelf Program issuances 6,800 7,856 5,241 19,897 
Repurchase of common stock (202) — — (202)
Other , net 282 204 116 602 
Ending balance 417,401 410,257 383,675 417,401 
Average number of shares outstanding:    
Basic 415,451 401,845 373,620  
Diluted 417,387 403,808 375,250  
During the past three years, inflation has not significantly affected our earnings because of the moderate inflation rate.
Additionally, a portion of our earnings are derived primarily from long-term investments with predictable rates of return. These
investments are mainly financed with a combination of equity, senior unsecured notes, secured debt and borrowings under our
primary unsecured credit facility. During inflationary periods, which generally are accompanied by rising interest rates, our ability
to grow may be adversely affected because the yield on new investments may increase at a slower rate than new borrowing costs.
Presuming the current inflation rate remains moderate and long-term interest rates do not increase significantly, we believe that
inflation will not impact the availability of equity and debt financing for us.(1)
(1)
52
5
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Seniors Housing Operating 
The following is a summary of our SSNOI at Welltower's Share for the Seniors Housing Operating segment (dollars in
thousands):
 QTD Pool YTD Pool
Three Months Ended Change Year Ended Change
 December 31,
2020December 31,
2019 $ %December 31,
2020December 31,
2019 $ %
SSNOI $ 154,373 $ 216,166 $(61,793) -28.6 %$ 591,133 $ 764,328 $(173,195) -22.7 %
 Relates to 514 properties for the QTD Pool and 399 properties for the YTD Pool. Please see "Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and
reconciliations.
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Seniors Housing Operating segment for the years presented
(dollars in thousands):
  Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
  December 31, December 31,  December 31,    
  2020 2019 $ % 2018 $ % $ %
Revenues:          
 Resident fees and services $ 3,074,022 $ 3,448,175 $(374,153) -11 %$ 3,234,852 $213,323 7 %$(160,830) -5 %
 Interest income 618 36 582 n/a 578 (542) -94 % 40 7 %
 Other income 7,223 8,658 (1,435) -17 % 5,024 3,634 72 % 2,199 44 %
 Total revenues 3,081,863 3,456,869 (375,006) -11 % 3,240,454 216,415 7 % (158,591) -5 %
Property operating expenses 2,326,311 2,417,349 (91,038) -4 % 2,255,432 161,917 7 % 70,879 3 %
 NOI 755,552 1,039,520 (283,968) -27 % 985,022 54,498 6 % (229,470) -23 %
Other expenses:    
 Depreciation and amortization 544,462 553,189 (8,727) -2 % 529,449 23,740 4 % 15,013 3 %
 Interest expense 54,901 67,983 (13,082) -19 % 69,060 (1,077) -2 % (14,159) -21 %
 Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt,
net 12,659 1,614 11,045 684 % 110 1,504 n/a 12,549 n/a
Provision for loan losses 671 — 671 n/a — — n/a 671 n/a
 Impairment of assets 100,741 2,145 98,596 n/a 7,599 (5,454) -72 % 93,142 1,226 %
 Other expenses 14,265 26,348 (12,083) -46 % 6,624 19,724 298 % 7,641 115 %
 727,699 651,279 76,420 12 % 612,842 38,437 6 % 114,857 19 %
Income (loss) from continuing operations
before income taxes and other items 27,853 388,241 (360,388) -93 % 372,180 16,061 4 % (344,327) -93 %
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (33,857) 12,388 (46,245) -373 % (28,142) 40,530 144 % (5,715) -20 %
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 328,249 528,747 (200,498) -38 % (2,245) 530,992 n/a 330,494 n/a
Income from continuing operations 322,245 929,376 (607,131) -65 % 341,793 587,583 172 % (19,548) -6 %
Net income (loss) 322,245 929,376 (607,131) -65 % 341,793 587,583 172 % (19,548) -6 %
Less: Net income (loss) attributable to
noncontrolling interests 20,301 56,513 (36,212) -64 % (660) 57,173 n/a 20,961 n/a
Net income (loss) attributable to common
stockholders $ 301,944 $ 872,863 $(570,919) -65 %$ 342,453 $530,410 155 %$(40,509) -12 %
  See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.
Decreases in resident fees and services and property operating expenses are primarily a result of property dispositions and
decreases in occupancy across the portfolio due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Occupancy within our Seniors Housing Operating
portfolio has declined as follows:
Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec.
Spot occupancy85.6 % 84.9 % 82.6 % 80.9 % 79.9 % 79.3 % 78.7 % 78.4 % 78.0 % 77.3 % 76.2 %
Sequential
occupancy
change (0.7) % (2.3) % (1.7) % (1.0) % (0.6) % (0.6) % (0.3) % (0.4) % (0.7) % (1.1) %
Spot occupancy represents approximate month end occupancy for properties in operation as of February 29, 2020, including unconsolidated properties but
excluding acquisitions, dispositions and development conversions since this date.
In addition, we have experienced increased operational costs, net of reimbursements, of $78,792,000 during the year ended
December 31, 2020, included in property operating expenses relating to our consolidated properties. These expenses were incurred
as a result of the introduction of public health measures and other regulations affecting our properties, as well as additional health
and safety measures adopted by us and our operators related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including increases in labor and property
cleaning expenses and expenditures related to our efforts to procure PPE and supplies, net of reimbursements. We expect total
portfolio expenses to be elevated during the pandemic and potentially beyond as these additional health and safety measures
become standard practice.(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1) 
53
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
In 2020 applications were made for amounts under Phase 2 and Phase 3 of the Provider Relief Fund following the announcement
from the Department of Health and Human Services that it expanded the eligibility of the CARES Act Provider Relief Fund to
include assisted living facilities. During the fourth quarter, we received Provider Relief Funds of approximately $9 million which
was recognized as a reduction to property operating expenses. To date in 2021, we have received approximately $34 million of
Provider Relief Funds.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded impairment charges of $100,741,000 related to 15 held for sale or sold
properties and six held for use properties. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recorded impairment charges of
$2,145,000 related to four held for use properties. Transaction costs related to asset acquisitions are capitalized as a component of
the purchase price. Changes in the gain on sale of properties are due to the volume of property sales and sales prices. During the
year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized a gain on real estate disposition of $313 million related to an 11 property U.S.
portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized a gain on real estate disposition of $520 million related to the
Benchmark Senior Living portfolio. The fluctuation in other expenses is primarily due to the timing of noncapitalizable transaction
costs associated with acquisitions and operator transitions.
Depreciation and amortization fluctuates as a result of acquisitions, disposition and transitions. To the extent we acquire or
dispose of additional properties in the future, our provision for depreciation and amortization will change accordingly.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we completed three Seniors Housing Operating construction projects representing
$93,188,000 or $300,606 per unit. The following is a summary of our consolidated Seniors Housing Operating construction
projects, excluding expansions, pending as of December 31, 2020 (dollars in thousands):
Location Units/Beds Commitment Balance Est. Completion
Potomac, MD 120 $ 56,720 $ 48,783 2Q21
Beckenham, UK 100 64,348 45,722 3Q21
Barnet, UK 100 70,769 41,215 4Q21
Hendon, UK 102 75,824 50,817 1Q22
Princeton, NJ 80 29,780 19,209 3Q22
Berea, OH 120 14,934 1,538 4Q22
Painesville, OH 119 14,462 1,508 4Q22
Beaver , PA 116 14,184 1,152 4Q22
857 $ 341,021 209,944  
Toronto, ON Project in planning stage 46,856 
Brookline, MA Project in planning stage 23,679 
Washington, DC Project in planning stage 22,951 
Columbus, OH Project in planning stage 11,492 
Raleigh, NC Project in planning stage 3,107 
$ 318,029 
Interest expense represents secured debt interest expense which fluctuates based on the net effect and timing of assumptions,
segment transitions, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The fluctuations in loss
(gain) on extinguishment of debt is primarily attributable to the volume of extinguishments and terms of the related secured
debt. The following is a summary of our Seniors Housing Operating segment property secured debt principal activity (dollars in
thousands):
Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended
December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
 Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 2,115,037 3.54% $ 1,810,587 3.87% $ 1,988,700 3.66%
Debt transferred in — —% — —% 35,830 3.84%
Debt issued 62,055 2.55% 343,696 3.11% 45,447 3.40%
Debt assumed — —% 183,061 4.58% 121,612 5.55%
Debt extinguished (441,208) 2.18% (219,864) 4.28% (240,095) 4.83%
Debt transferred out — —% (12,072) 3.89% — —%
Principal payments (48,498) 3.30% (43,997) 3.45% (47,886) 3.59%
Foreign currency 18,803 2.93% 53,626 3.33% (93,021) 3.31%
Ending balance $ 1,706,189 3.05% $ 2,115,037 3.54% $ 1,810,587 3.87%
Monthly averages $ 1,875,910 3.19% $ 1,966,892 3.70% $ 1,915,663 3.74%
54
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The majority of our Seniors Housing Operating properties are formed through partnership interests. Losses from unconsolidated
entities during the year ended December 31, 2020 are largely attributable to depreciation and amortization of short-lived intangible
assets related to certain investments in unconsolidated joint ventures. The gains from unconsolidated entities during the year ended
December 31, 2019 are largely due to a gain on the disposition of an unconsolidated entity. Net income attributable to
noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income (loss) related to joint ventures. The increase during the years
ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 relates primarily to our partner's share of the gains recognized on the sale of the 11 property
U.S. portfolio and the Benchmark Senior Living portfolio, respectively.
Triple-net 
The following is a summary of our SSNOI at Welltower's Share for the Triple-net segment (dollars in thousands):
 QTD Pool YTD Pool
Three Months Ended Change Year Ended Change
 December 31,
2020December 31,
2019 $ %December 31,
2020December 31,
2019 $ %
SSNOI $ 168,697 $ 170,052 $(1,355) -0.8 %$ 628,972 $ 624,877 $ 4,095 0.7 %
 Relates to 632 properties for the QTD Pool and 608 properties for the YTD Pool. Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and
reconciliations.
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Triple-net segment for the years presented (dollars in thousands):
  Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
  December 31, December 31,  December 31,    
  2020 2019 $ % 2018 $ % $ %
Revenues:          
 Rental income $ 733,776 $ 903,798 $(170,022) -19 %$ 828,865 $74,933 9 %$(95,089) -11 %
 Interest income 62,625 62,599 26 — % 54,926 7,673 14 % 7,699 14 %
 Other income 4,903 6,246 (1,343) -22 % 17,173 (10,927) -64 % (12,270) -71 %
 Total revenues 801,304 972,643 (171,339) -18 % 900,964 71,679 8 % (99,660) -11 %
Property operating expenses 53,183 53,900 (717) -1 % 915 52,985 5,791 52,268 5,712 
 NOI 748,121 918,743 (170,622) -19 % 900,049 18,694 2 % (151,928) -17 %
Other expenses:    
 Depreciation and amortization 232,604 232,626 (22) — % 235,480 (2,854) -1 % (2,876) -1 %
 Interest expense 9,477 12,892 (3,415) -26 % 14,225 (1,333) -9 % (4,748) -33 %
 Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial
instruments, net 11,049 (4,399) 15,448 351 % (4,016) (383) -10 % 15,065 375 %
 Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt,
net — — — n/a (32) 32 100 % 32 100 %
 Provision for loan losses 90,563 18,690 71,873 385 — 18,690 n/a 90,563 n/a
 Impairment of assets 34,867 11,926 22,941 192 % 107,980 (96,054) -89 % (73,113) -68 %
 Other expenses 22,923 13,771 9,152 66 % 90,975 (77,204) -85 % (68,052) -75 %
  401,483 285,506 115,977 41 % 444,612 (159,106) -36 % (43,129) -10 %
Income from continuing operations before
income taxes and other items 346,638 633,237 (286,599) -45 % 455,437 177,800 39 % (108,799) -24 %
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities 18,462 22,985 (4,523) -20 % 21,938 1,047 5 % (3,476) -16 %
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 64,288 218,322 (154,034) -71 % 196,589 21,733 11 % (132,301) -67 %
Income from continuing operations 429,388 874,544 (445,156) -51 % 673,964 200,580 30 % (244,576) -36 %
Net income 429,388 874,544 (445,156) -51 % 673,964 200,580 30 % (244,576) -36 %
Less: Net income attributable to
noncontrolling interests 39,985 36,271 3,714 10 % 19,306 16,965 88 % 20,679 107 %
Net income attributable to common
stockholders $ 389,403 $ 838,273 $(448,870) -54 %$ 654,658 $183,615 28 %$(265,255) -41 %
 See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.
The decrease in rental income is primarily attributable to the write-off of straight-line rent receivable balances of $146,508,000
during the year ended December 31, 2020, relating to leases for which collection of substantially all contractual lease payments was
no longer deemed probable. Included in such amounts was $91,025,000 relating to Genesis Healthcare whom noted substantial
doubt as to their ability to continue as a going concern in August. Certain of our leases contain annual rental escalators that are
contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index and/or changes in the gross operating revenues of the tenant’s
properties. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the
contractual cash rental payments due for the period. If gross operating revenues at our facilities and/or the Consumer Price Index do
not increase, a portion of our revenues may not continue to increase. For the three months ended(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
55
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
December 31, 2020, we had 18 leases with rental rate increasers ranging from 0.07% to 0.34% in our Triple-net portfolio. Our
Triple-net operators are experiencing similar impacts on occupancy and operating costs due to the COVID-19 pandemic as
described above with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating properties. However, long-term/post-acute facilities are generally
experiencing a higher degree of occupancy declines which may impact the ability of our Triple-net operators to make contractual
rent payments to us in the future. Many of our Triple-net operators received funds under the CARES Act Paycheck Protection
Program. In addition, operators of long-term/post-acute facilities have generally received funds from Phase 1 of the Provider Relief
Fund and operators of assisted living facilities have or are expected to receive funds from Phase 2 of the Provider Relief Fund.
Accordingly, collection of rent due during the COVID-19 pandemic to date (March through December) has generally been
consistent with historical collection rates and no significant rent concessions or deferrals have been made.
Depreciation and amortization fluctuates as a result of acquisitions, disposition and transitions of triple-net properties. To the
extent we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future, our provision for depreciation and amortization will change
accordingly.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized a provision for loan losses of $90,563,000, of which $80,873,000
represents additional reserves as a result of the current collateral estimate related to the Genesis Healthcare outstanding loans.
During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized a provision for loan losses of $18,690,000 to fully reserve for certain
real estate loans receivable that were no longer deemed collectible. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded
impairment charges of $34,867,000 related to one held for sale and four held for use properties. During the year ended December
31, 2019, we recorded impairment charges of $11,374,000 related to two properties. Changes in the gain on sales of properties are
related to the volume and timing of property sales and the sales prices. The fluctuation in other expense is primarily due to
noncapitalizable transaction costs from acquisitions and segment transitions.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we completed three Triple-net construction projects representing $75,149,000 or
$224,997 per unit. The following is a summary of our consolidated Triple-net construction projects, excluding expansions, pending
as of December 31, 2020 (dollars in thousands):
Location Units/Beds Commitment Balance Est. Completion
Thousand Oaks, CA 82 $ 25,391 $ 21,408 1Q21
Redhill, UK 76 21,723 11,869 2Q21
Leicester , UK 60 15,301 5,566 1Q22
Wombourne, UK 66 16,394 5,537 2Q22
Raleigh, NC 191 154,256 14,339 2Q23
Total 475 $ 233,065 $ 58,719  
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net is primarily attributable to the mark-to-market adjustments recorded on
our Genesis Healthcare available-for-sale investment. Interest expense represents secured debt interest expense and related
fees. The change in secured debt interest expense is due to the net effect and timing of assumptions, segment transitions,
fluctuations in foreign currency rates, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The following is a summary of our Triple-net
secured debt principal activity for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended
December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
 Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 306,038 3.60% $ 288,386 3.63% $ 347,474 3.55%
Debt transferred in — —% 12,072 3.89% — —%
Debt extinguished (176,875) 2.03% — —% (4,107) 4.94%
Debt transferred out — —% — —% (35,830) 3.84%
Principal payments (4,376) 5.16% (4,017) 5.21% (3,982) 5.38%
Foreign currency (1,135) 2.97% 9,597 2.99% (15,169) 3.44%
Ending balance $ 123,652 4.91% $ 306,038 3.60% $ 288,386 3.63%
Monthly averages $ 215,796 3.85% $ 294,080 3.63% $ 321,730 3.51%
A portion of our Triple-net properties were formed through partnerships. Income or loss from unconsolidated entities represents
our share of net income or losses from partnerships where we are the noncontrolling partner. The decrease in income from
unconsolidated entities during the year ended December 31, 2020 is primarily related to the write-off of Genesis Healthcare
straight-line rent receivable balances at unconsolidated entities. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests represents our
partners’ share of net income relating to those partnerships where we are the controlling partner.
56
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Outpatient Medical 
The following is a summary of our SSNOI at Welltower Share for the Outpatient Medical segment (dollars in thousands):
 QTD Pool YTD Pool
Three Months Ended Change Year Ended Change
 December 31,
2020December 31,
2019 $ %December 31,
2020December 31,
2019 $ %
SSNOI $ 84,985 $ 84,144 $ 841 1.0 %$ 252,512 $ 246,789 $5,723 2.3 %
 Relates to 303 properties for the QTD Pool and 231 properties for the YTD Pool. Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and
reconciliations.
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Outpatient Medical segment for the periods presented (dollars in
thousands): 
  Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
  December 31, December 31,  December 31,    
  2020 2019 $ % 2018 $ % $ %
Revenues:          
 Rental income $ 709,584 $ 684,602 $24,982 4 %$ 551,557 $133,045 24 %$158,027 29 %
 Interest income 5,913 1,195 4,718 395 % 310 885 285 % 5,603 n/a
 Other income 4,522 2,031 2,491 123 % 4,939 (2,908) -59 % (417) -8 %
 Total revenues 720,019 687,828 32,191 5 % 556,806 131,022 24 % 163,213 29 %
Property operating expenses 214,948 218,793 (3,845) -2 % 176,670 42,123 24 % 38,278 22 %
 NOI 505,071 469,035 36,036 8 % 380,136 88,899 23 % 124,935 33 %
Other expenses:       
 Depreciation and amortization 261,371 241,258 20,113 8 % 185,530 55,728 30 % 75,841 41 %
 Interest expense 17,579 13,411 4,168 31 % 7,051 6,360 90 % 10,528 149 %
 Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt,
net 1,046 — 1,046 n/a 11,928 (11,928) -100 % (10,882) -91 %
 Provision for loan losses 3,202 — 3,202 n/a — — n/a 3,202 n/a
 Impairment of assets — 14,062 (14,062) -100 % — 14,062 n/a — n/a
 Other expenses 8,218 1,788 6,430 360 % 7,570 (5,782) -76 % 648 9 %
  291,416 270,519 20,897 8 % 212,079 58,440 28 % 79,337 37 %
Income from continuing operations before
income taxes and other item 213,655 198,516 15,139 8 % 168,057 30,459 18 % 45,598 27 %
Income (loss) from unconsolidated
entities 7,312 7,061 251 4 % 5,563 1,498 27 % 1,749 31 %
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 695,918 972 694,946 n/a 221,231 (220,259) -100 % 474,687 215 %
Income from continuing operations 916,885 206,549 710,336 344 % 394,851 (188,302) -48 % 522,034 132 %
Net income (loss) 916,885 206,549 710,336 344 % 394,851 (188,302) -48 % 522,034 132 %
Less: Net income (loss) attributable to
noncontrolling interests (278) 5,194 (5,472) -105 % 6,150 (956) -16 % (6,428) -105 %
Net income (loss) attributable to common
stockholders $ 917,163 $ 201,355 $715,808 355 %$ 388,701 $(187,346) -48 %$528,462 136 %
 See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.
Increases in rental income are primarily attributable to the acquisitions of new properties and the conversion of newly
constructed outpatient medical properties, particularly the $1.25 billion CNL Healthcare Properties portfolio acquisition that closed
in May 2019, partially offset by 2020 dispositions. Certain of our leases contain annual rental escalators that are contingent upon
changes in the Consumer Price Index. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is
recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. If the Consumer Price Index does not increase, a portion
of our revenues may not continue to increase. Our leases could renew above or below current rental rates, resulting in an increase or
decrease in rental income. For the three months ended December 31, 2020, our consolidated outpatient medical portfolio signed
133,859 square feet of new leases and 282,719 square feet of renewals. The weighted-average term of these leases was six years,
with a rate of $26.55 per square foot and tenant improvement and lease commission costs of $15.23 per square foot. Substantially
all of these leases contain an annual fixed or contingent escalation rent structure ranging from 2.0% to 3.5%.
In addition, our Outpatient Medical tenants are experiencing temporary medical practice closures or decreases in revenue due to
government imposed restrictions on elective medical procedures or decisions by patients to delay treatments which may adversely
affect their ability to make contractual rent payments. Outpatient Medical rent collections through March were generally consistent
with pre COVID-19 levels. During the second quarter we executed short term rent deferrals with certain Outpatient Medical tenants
which in most cases were required to be repaid by year end. Since then we have collected approximately 99% of Outpatient
Medical rent due in the second half of the year, with uncollected amounts primarily attributable to local jurisdictions with COVID-
19 related ordinances providing temporary rent relief to tenants. Furthermore,(1)
(1)
(1)
.
(1)
57
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
collections of deferred rent due under executed deferrals was over 99%. To the extent that deferred rent is not repaid as expected, or
the prolonged impact of the COVID-19 pandemic causes operators or tenants to seek further modifications of their lease
agreements, we may recognize reductions in revenue and increases in uncollectible receivables.
The fluctuation in property operating expenses and depreciation and amortization are primarily attributable to acquisitions and
construction conversions of outpatient medical facilities, offset by dispositions. To the extent that we acquire or dispose of
additional properties in the future, these amounts will change accordingly. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we
recognized impairment charges of $14,062,000 related to three held for sale properties as the carrying values exceeded the
estimated fair values less costs to sell. Changes in gains/losses on sales of properties are related to volume of property sales and the
sales prices. The increase in other expense during the year ended December 31, 2020 is primarily due to noncapitalizable
transaction costs from acquisitions no longer expected to be consummated.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we completed three Outpatient Medical construction projects representing
$43,493,000 or $306 per square foot. The following is a summary of our consolidated Outpatient Medical construction projects
pending as of December 31, 2020 (dollars in thousands):
Location Square Feet Commitment Balance Est. Completion
Brooklyn, NY 140,955 $ 105,306 $ 104,148 2Q21
Kalamazoo, MI 40,607 14,267 2,654 3Q21
Total 181,562 $ 119,573 $ 106,802  
Total interest expense represents secured debt interest expense. The change in secured debt interest expense is primarily due to
the net effect and timing of assumptions, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The following is a summary of our
Outpatient Medical secured debt principal activity for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended
December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
 Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 572,267 3.97% $ 386,738 4.20% $ 279,951 4.72%
Debt assumed — —% 202,084 4.12% 171,275 3.99%
Debt extinguished (14,205) 5.34% (10,244) 5.75% (61,291) 7.43%
Principal payments (9,833) 4.60% (6,311) 4.97% (3,197) 5.91%
Ending balance $ 548,229 3.55% $ 572,267 3.97% $ 386,738 4.20%
Monthly averages $ 562,017 3.72% $ 397,756 4.15% $ 238,214 4.25%
A portion of our Outpatient Medical properties were formed through partnerships. Income or loss from unconsolidated entities
represents our share of net income or losses from partnerships where we are the noncontrolling partner. Net income attributable to
noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income or loss relating to those partnerships where we are the
controlling partner.
58
58
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Non-Segment/Corporate
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Non-Segment/Corporate activities (dollars in thousands) for the
periods presented:
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,  December 31,    
 2020 2019 $ % 2018 $ % $ %
Revenues:          
Other income $ 2,781 $ 3,966 $(1,185) -30 %$ 2,275 $ 1,691 74 %$ 506 22 %
Total revenues 2,781 3,966 (1,185) -30 % 2,275 1,691 74 % 506 22 %
Property operating expenses 3,381 — 3,381 n/a — — n/a 3,381 n/a
NOI (600) 3,966 (4,566) -115 % 2,275 1,691 74 % (2,875) -126 %
Other expenses:    
Interest expense 432,431 461,273 (28,842) -6 % 436,256 25,017 6 % (3,825) -1 %
General and administrative expenses 128,394 126,549 1,845 1 % 126,383 166 0 % 2,011 2 %
Loss (gain) on extinguishments of debt,
net 33,344 82,541 (49,197) -60 % 4,091 78,450 1,918 % 29,253 715 %
Other expenses 24,929 10,705 14,224 133 % 7,729 2,976 39 % 17,200 223 %
Total expenses 619,098 681,068 (61,970) -9 % 574,459 106,609 19 % 44,639 8 %
Loss from continuing operations before
income taxes and other items (619,698) (677,102) 57,404 8 % (572,184) (104,918) -18 % (47,514) -8 %
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net — — — n/a — — n/a — n/a
Income tax benefit (expense) (9,968) (2,957) (7,011) -237 % (8,674) 5,717 66 % (1,294) -15 %
Loss from continuing operations (629,666) (680,059) 50,393 7 % (580,858) (99,201) -17 % (48,808) -8 %
Preferred stock dividends — — — n/a 46,704 (46,704) -100 % (46,704) -100 %
Net loss attributable to common
stockholders $ (629,666)$ (680,059)$50,393 7 %$ (627,562)$(52,497) -8 %$(2,104) 0 %
 See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.
Property operating expenses represent insurance costs related to our captive insurance company formed as of July 1, 2020, which
acts as a direct insurer of property level insurance coverage for our portfolio.
The following is a summary of our Non-Segment/Corporate interest expense for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31,December 31,   December 31,     
 2020 2019 $ % 2018 $ % $ %
Senior unsecured notes $ 400,014 $ 402,133 $(2,119) -1 %$ 387,955 $14,178 4 %$12,059 3 %
Secured debt — — — n/a 115 (115) -100 % (115) -100 %
Unsecured credit facility and
commercial paper program 15,313 43,861 (28,548) -65 % 34,626 9,235 27 % (19,313) -56 %
Loan expense 17,104 15,279 1,825 12 % 13,560 1,719 13 % 3,544 26 %
Totals $ 432,431 $ 461,273 $(28,842) -6 %$ 436,256 $25,017 6 %$(3,825) -1 %
The change in interest expense on senior unsecured notes is due to the net effect of issuances and extinguishments, as well as the
movement in foreign exchange rates and related hedge activity. Please refer to Note 11 to consolidated financial statements for
additional information. The change in interest expense on our unsecured credit facility and commercial paper program is due
primarily to the net effect and timing of draws, paydowns and variable interest rate changes. Please refer to Note 10 of our
consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper
program. Loan expenses represent the amortization of costs incurred in connection with senior unsecured notes issuances. The loss
on extinguishment recognized during the year ended December 31, 2020 is due primarily to the early extinguishment of
$160,872,000 of our 3.75% senior unsecured notes due March 2023 and $265,376,000 of our 3.95% senior unsecured notes due
September 2023. The loss on extinguishment recognized in 2019 is due primarily to the early extinguishment of the $600,000,000
of 4.125% senior unsecured notes due 2019 and the $450,000,000 of 6.125% senior unsecured notes due 2020 in March 2019, the
early extinguishment of the $450,000,000 of 4.95% senior unsecured notes due 2021 and the $600,000,000 of 5.25% senior
unsecured notes due 2022 in September 2019 and the early redemption of the $300 million Canadian-denominated 3.35% senior
unsecured notes due 2020 in December 2019.
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and
2018 were 2.79%, 2.47% and 2.69%, respectively. Other expenses for all years include severance-related costs associated with the
departure of certain executive officers and key employees. 
Income tax expense primarily relates to state taxes, foreign taxes and taxes based on income generated by entities that are
structured as TRSs.(1)
(1)
59
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Other
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders (“NICS”), as defined by U.S. GAAP, are the
most appropriate earnings measurements. However, we consider FFO, NOI, SSNOI, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to be useful
supplemental measures of our operating performance. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S.
GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for
depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and
analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be
insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) created funds from operations
attributable to common stockholders (“FFO”) as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes
historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means NICS, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP,
excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate and impairment of depreciable assets, plus depreciation and amortization, and
after adjustments for unconsolidated entities and noncontrolling interests.
Consolidated net operating income (“NOI”) is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties. We define NOI as
total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating expenses. Property operating expenses represent costs
associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for our properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to,
property-related payroll and benefits, property management fees paid to operators, marketing, housekeeping, food service,
maintenance, utilities, property taxes and insurance. General and administrative expenses represent costs unrelated to property
operations. These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and benefits, professional services, office expenses and
depreciation of corporate fixed assets. Same store NOI (“SSNOI”) is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties
using a consistent population which controls for changes in the composition of our portfolio. We believe the drivers of property
level NOI for both consolidated properties and unconsolidated properties are generally the same and therefore, we evaluate SSNOI
based on our ownership interest in each property ("Welltower Share"). To arrive at Welltower's Share, NOI is adjusted by adding
our minority ownership share related to unconsolidated properties and by subtracting the minority partners' noncontrolling
ownership interests for consolidated properties. We do not control investments in unconsolidated properties and while we consider
disclosures at Welltower Share to be useful, they may not accurately depict the legal and economic implications of our joint venture
arrangements and should be used with caution. As used herein, same store is generally defined as those revenue-generating
properties in the portfolio for the relevant year-over-year reporting periods. Acquisitions and development conversions are included
in SSNOI five full quarters or eight full quarters after acquisition or being placed into service for the QTD Pool and the YTD Pool,
respectively. Land parcels, loans and sub-leases, as well as any properties sold or classified as held for sale during the respective
periods are excluded from SSNOI. Redeveloped properties (including major refurbishments of a Seniors Housing Operating
property where 20% or more of units are simultaneously taken out of commission for 30 days or more or Outpatient Medical
properties undergoing a change in intended use) are excluded from SSNOI until five full quarters or eight full quarters post
completion of the redevelopment for the QTD Pool and YTD Pool, respectively. Properties undergoing operator transitions and/or
segment transitions are also excluded from SSNOI until five full quarters or eight full quarters post completion of the transition for
the QTD Pool and YTD Pool, respectively. In addition, properties significantly impacted by force majeure, acts of God, or other
extraordinary adverse events are excluded from SSNOI until five full quarters or eight full quarters after the properties are placed
back into service for the QTD Pool and YTD Pool, respectively. SSNOI excludes non-cash NOI and includes adjustments to
present consistent ownership percentages and to translate Canadian properties and U.K. properties using a consistent exchange rate.
We believe NOI and SSNOI provide investors relevant and useful information because they measure the operating performance of
our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI and SSNOI to make decisions about resource allocations
and to assess the property level performance of our properties.
EBITDA is defined as earnings (net income) before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is defined
as EBITDA excluding unconsolidated entities and including adjustments for stock-based compensation expense, provision for loan
losses, gains/losses on extinguishment of debt, gains/loss/impairments on properties, gains/losses on derivatives and financial
instruments, other expense, additional other income and other impairment charges. We believe that EBITDA and Adjusted
EBITDA, along with net income, are important supplemental measures because they provide additional information to assess and
evaluate the performance of our operations. We primarily use these measures to determine our interest coverage ratio, which
represents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by total interest, and our fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents
EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest, secured debt principal amortization,
and preferred dividends. Covenants in our unsecured senior notes and primary credit facility contain financial ratios based on a
definition of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA that is specific to those agreements. Our leverage ratios are defined as the proportion
of net debt to total capitalization and include book capitalization, undepreciated book capitalization and market capitalization. Book
capitalization represents the sum of net debt (defined as total long-term debt, excluding operating lease liabilities, less cash and
cash equivalents and any IRC Section 1031 deposits), total equity and redeemable noncontrolling interests. Undepreciated book
capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for accumulated
60
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
depreciation and amortization. Market capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for the fair market value of our
common stock.
Our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt
analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Management uses
these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical operating results and in making operating
decisions. Additionally, these measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. None of our supplemental
measures represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and
should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental measures, as defined by us,
may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies.
The table below reflects the reconciliation of FFO to NICS, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods
presented. Noncontrolling interest and unconsolidated entity amounts represent adjustments to reflect our share of depreciation and
amortization, gains/losses on real estate dispositions and impairments of assets. Amounts are in thousands except for per share data.
 Year Ended December 31,
FFO Reconciliation: 2020 2019 2018
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 978,844 $ 1,232,432 $ 758,250 
Depreciation and amortization 1,038,437 1,027,073 950,459 
Impairment of assets 135,608 28,133 115,579 
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (1,088,455) (748,041) (415,575)
Noncontrolling interests (23,968) (20,197) (69,193)
Unconsolidated entities 62,096 57,680 52,663 
Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders $ 1,102,562 $ 1,577,080 $ 1,392,183 
Average diluted shares outstanding: 417,387 403,808 375,250 
Per diluted share data:    
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 2.33 $ 3.05 $ 2.02 
Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders $ 2.64 $ 3.91 $ 3.71 
 Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP unitholders.
The following tables reflect the reconciliation of NOI to net income, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the
years presented. Dollar amounts are in thousands.
 Year Ended December 31,
NOI Reconciliation: 2020 2019 2018
Net income $ 1,038,852 $ 1,330,410 $ 829,750 
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (1,088,455) (748,041) (415,575)
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 8,083 (42,434) 641 
Income tax expense (benefit) 9,968 2,957 8,674 
Other expenses 70,335 52,612 112,898 
Impairment of assets 135,608 28,133 115,579 
Provision for loan losses 94,436 18,690 — 
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 47,049 84,155 16,097 
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 11,049 (4,399) (4,016)
General and administrative expenses 128,394 126,549 126,383 
Depreciation and amortization 1,038,437 1,027,073 950,459 
Interest expense 514,388 555,559 526,592 
Consolidated net operating income (NOI) $ 2,008,144 $ 2,431,264 $ 2,267,482 
NOI by segment:    
Seniors Housing Operating $ 755,552 $ 1,039,520 $ 985,022 
Triple-net 748,121 918,743 900,049 
Outpatient Medical 505,071 469,035 380,136 
Non-segment/corporate (600) 3,966 2,275 
Total NOI $ 2,008,144 $ 2,431,264 $ 2,267,482 (1)
(1)
61
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Quarterly NOI by
Segment:
(in thousands) Three Months Ended Year Ended
 March 31,  June 30,  September 30,  December 31, December 31,
2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
Seniors Housing Operating:
Total revenues $851,128 $872,386 $773,650 $915,529 $742,065 $835,496 $715,020 $833,458 $3,081,863 $3,456,869 
Property operating
expenses 607,871 607,686 595,513 637,317 567,704 581,341 555,223 591,005 2,326,311 2,417,349 
NOI $243,257 $264,700 $178,137 $278,212 $174,361 $254,155 $159,797 $242,453 $755,552 $1,039,520 
Triple-net:
Total revenues $207,729 $248,241 $233,619 $240,758 $120,928 $244,607 $239,028 $239,037 $801,304 $972,643 
Property operating
expenses 13,302 14,955 13,563 12,823 12,567 13,922 13,751 12,200 53,183 53,900 
NOI $194,427 $233,286 $220,056 $227,935 $108,361 $230,685 $225,277 $226,837 $748,121 $918,743 
Outpatient Medical:
Total revenues $199,329 $149,461 $180,831 $163,365 $172,704 $185,189 $167,155 $189,813 $720,019 $687,828 
Property operating
expenses 60,608 48,166 51,688 50,987 52,728 60,325 49,924 59,315 214,948 218,793 
NOI $138,721 $101,295 $129,143 $112,378 $119,976 $124,864 $117,231 $130,498 $505,071 $469,035 
Corporate:
Total revenues $ 416 $ 2,157 $ 375 $ 454 $ 1,177 $ 841 $ 813 $ 514 $ 2,781 $ 3,966 
Property operating
expenses — — — — 1,718 — 1,663 — 3,381 — 
NOI $ 416 $ 2,157 $ 375 $ 454 $ (541)$ 841 $ (850)$ 514 $ (600)$ 3,966 
The following is a reconciliation of the properties included in our QTD Pool and YTD Pool for SSNOI:
QTD Pool YTD Pool
SSNOI Property Reconciliations:Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-netOutpatient
Medical TotalSeniors Housing
Operating Triple-netOutpatient
Medical Total
Consolidated properties 556 641 296 1,493 556 641 296 1,493 
Unconsolidated properties 90 39 72 201 90 39 72 201 
Total properties 646 680 368 1,694 646 680 368 1,694 
Recent acquisitions/development
    conversions (46) (18) (51) (115) (93) (24) (123) (240)
Under development (27) (4) (2) (33) (27) (4) (2) (33)
Under redevelopment (10) (1) (2) (13) (11) (1) (2) (14)
Current held for sale (10) (1) (2) (13) (10) (1) (2) (13)
Loans, land parcels and subleases (11) (18) (8) (37) (11) (18) (8) (37)
Transitions (27) (6) — (33) (93) (24) — (117)
Other (1) — — (1) (2) — — (2)
Same store properties 514 632 303 1,449 399 608 231 1,238 
 Acquisitions and development conversions will enter the QTD  Pool and YTD Pool five full quarters and eight full quarters after acquisition or certificate of occupancy ,
respectively .
 Redevelopment properties will enter the QTD Pool and YTD Pool after five full quarters and eight full quarters of operations post redevelopment completion, respectively .
 Transitioned properties will enter the QTD Pool and YTD Pool after five full quarters and eight full quarters of operations with the new operator in place or under the new
structure, respectively .
 Includes one closed property in the QTD pool and one closed property and one flooded property in the YTD pool.(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
62
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following is a reconciliation of our consolidated NOI to same store NOI for the periods presented for the respective pools.
Dollar amounts are in thousands.
QTD Pool YTD Pool
Three Months Ended Twelve Months Ended
SSNOI Reconciliations: December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Seniors Housing Operating:  
Consolidated NOI $ 159,797 $ 242,453 $ 755,552 $ 1,039,520 
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments 13,182 16,491 53,736 65,387 
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (9,405) (19,436) (51,334) (81,426)
Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties (349) (842) (3,239) (4,295)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (8,291) (23,254) (166,567) (261,002)
Currency and ownership adjustments (561) 754 2,985 6,144 
SSNOI at Welltower Share 154,373 216,166 591,133 764,328 
Triple-net:
Consolidated NOI 225,277 226,837 $ 748,121 $ 918,743 
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments 4,818 5,133 13,797 20,532 
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (14,563) (14,751) (58,288) (58,462)
Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties (12,313) (15,224) 80,630 (58,846)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (34,236) (32,080) (155,566) (197,487)
Currency and ownership adjustments (286) 137 278 397
SSNOI at Welltower Share 168,697 170,052 628,972 624,877 
Outpatient Medical:
Consolidated NOI 117,231 130,498 505,071 469,035 
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments 3,481 541 9,629 1,930 
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (4,264) (6,853) (16,565) (27,637)
Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties (1,542) (2,915) (1,094) (2,807)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (24,050) (19,674) (204,525) (129,723)
Currency and ownership adjustments (5,871) (17,453) (40,004) (64,009)
SSNOI at Welltower Share 84,985 84,144 252,512 246,789 
SSNOI at Welltower Share:
Seniors Housing Operating 154,373 216,166 591,133 764,328 
Triple-net 168,697 170,052 628,972 624,877 
Outpatient Medical 84,985 84,144 252,512 246,789 
Total $ 408,055 $ 470,362 $ 1,472,617 $ 1,635,994 (1)
(1)
(1)
63
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The table below reflects the reconciliation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable U.S.
GAAP measure, for the periods presented. Dollars are in thousands.
 Year Ended December 31,
Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation: 2020 2019 2018
Net income (loss) $ 1,038,852 $ 1,330,410 $ 829,750 
Interest expense 514,388 555,559 526,592 
Income tax expense (benefit) 9,968 2,957 8,674 
Depreciation and amortization 1,038,437 1,027,073 950,459 
EBITDA 2,601,645 2,915,999 2,315,475 
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 8,083 (42,434) 641 
Stock-based compensation expense 28,318 25,047 27,646 
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 47,049 84,155 16,097 
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (1,088,455) (748,041) (415,575)
Impairment of assets 135,608 28,133 115,579 
Provision for loan losses 94,436 18,690 — 
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 11,049 (4,399) (4,016)
Other expenses 64,171 51,052 111,990 
Other impairment 146,508 — — 
Additional other income — — (14,832)
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,048,412 $ 2,328,202 $ 2,153,005 
Adjusted Inter est Coverage Ratio:    
Interest expense $ 514,388 $ 555,559 $ 526,592 
Capitalized interest 17,472 15,272 7,905 
Non-cash interest expense (15,751) (8,645) (10,860)
Total interest 516,109 562,186 523,637 
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,048,412 $ 2,328,202 $ 2,153,005 
Adjusted interest coverage ratio 3.97x 4.14x 4.11x
Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio:    
Total interest $ 516,109 $ 562,186 $ 523,637 
Secured debt principal payments 62,707 54,325 56,288 
Preferred dividends — — 46,704 
Total fixed char ges 578,816 616,51 1 626,629 
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,048,412 $ 2,328,202 $ 2,153,005 
Adjusted fixed char ge coverage ratio 3.54x 3.78x 3.44x
 Certain severance-related costs are included in stock-based compensation and excluded from other expenses.(1)
(1)
(1)
64
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Our leverage ratios include book capitalization, undepreciated book capitalization and market capitalization. Book capitalization
represents the sum of net debt (defined as total long-term debt less cash and cash equivalents and any IRC Section 1031 deposits),
total equity and redeemable noncontrolling interests. Undepreciated book capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for
accumulated depreciation and amortization. Market capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for the fair market value
of our common stock. Our leverage ratios are defined as the proportion of net debt to total capitalization. The table below reflects
the reconciliation of our leverage ratios to our balance sheets for the periods presented. Amounts are in thousands, except share
price.
  Year Ended December 31,
  2020 2019 2018
Book capitalization:    
Unsecured credit facility and commercial paper $ — $ 1,587,597 $ 1,147,000 
Long-term debt obligations 13,905,822 13,436,365 12,150,144 
Cash and cash equivalents (1,968,765) (284,917) (215,376)
Total net debt 11,937,057 14,739,045 13,081,768 
Total equity and noncontrolling interests 17,225,062 16,982,504 16,010,645 
Book capitalization $ 29,162,1 19 $ 31,721,549 $ 29,092,413 
 Net debt to book capitalization ratio 40.9 % 46.5 % 45.0 %
Undepr eciated book capitalization:
Total net debt $ 11,937,057 $ 14,739,045 $ 13,081,768 
Accumulated depreciation and amortization 6,104,297 5,715,459 5,499,958 
Total equity and noncontrolling interests 17,225,062 16,982,504 16,010,645 
Undepreciated book capitalization $ 35,266,416 $ 37,437,008 $ 34,592,371 
 Net debt to undepreciated book capitalization ratio 33.8 % 39.4 % 37.8 %
Market capitalization:
Common shares outstanding 417,401 410,257 383,675 
Period end share price $ 64.62 $ 81.78 $ 69.41 
Common equity market capitalization $ 26,972,453 $ 33,550,817 $ 26,630,882 
Total net debt 11,937,057 14,739,045 13,081,768 
Noncontrolling interests 1,252,343 1,442,060 1,378,31 1 
Preferred stock — — 718,498 
Market capitalization: $ 40,161,853 $ 49,731,922 $ 41,809,459 
 Net debt to market capitalization ratio 29.7 % 29.6 % 31.3 %
 Amounts include senior unsecured notes, secured debt and lease liabilities related to financing leases, as reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Operating
lease liabilities related to the ASC 842 adoption are excluded.
 Inclusive of IRC Section 1031 deposits, if any.
 Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests as reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Critical Accounting Policies
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and
assumptions. Management considers an accounting estimate or assumption critical if:
•the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account
for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change; and
•the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material.
Management has discussed the development and selection of its critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the
Board of Directors. Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in
our consolidated financial statements are appropriate and are not reasonably likely to change in the future. However, since these
estimates require assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made, they bear the risk of change. If
actual experience differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in our consolidated
financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity
and/or financial condition. Please refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information on significant
accounting policies that impact us and for the impact of new accounting standards, including accounting pronouncements that were
issued but not yet adopted by us.
The following table presents information about our critical accounting policies, as well as the material assumptions used to
develop each estimate:(1)
(2)
(3)
(3)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
65
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Nature of Critical
Accounting EstimateAssumptions/Approach
Used
Impairment of Real Property
 
Assessing impairment of real property involves subjectivity in
determining if indicators of impairment are present and in
estimating the future undiscounted cash flows or estimated fair
value of an asset. In estimating the undiscounted cash flows or
fair value, key assumptions that would be made are the
estimation of future rental revenues, operating expenses,
capitalization rates and the ability and intent to hold the
respective asset, all of which are affected by our expectations
of future market or economic conditions. These estimates can
have a significant impact on the undiscounted cash flows or
estimated fair value of an asset. 
 
Quarterly, we evaluate our real estate investments on a property by
property basis to determine if there are indicators of impairment.
These indicators may include expected operational performance,
the tenant's ability to make rent payments, a decision to dispose of
an asset before the end of its estimated useful life and changes in
the market that may permanently reduce the value of the property.
If indicators of impairment exist, an undiscounted cash flow
analysis will be prepared and the results of such analysis will be
compared to the current net book value to determine if an
impairment charge is necessary. This analysis requires us to use
judgment in determining whether indicators of impairment exist
and to estimate the expected future undiscounted cash flows or
estimated fair values of the property. Properties that meet the held
for sale criteria are recorded at the lesser of the fair value less costs
to sell or carrying value.
Real Estate Acquisitions
 
We believe that substantially all of our real estate acquisitions
are considered asset acquisitions for which we record the
related real estate acquired (tangible assets and identifiable
intangible assets and liabilities) at cost on a relative fair value
basis. Liabilities assumed and any associated noncontrolling
interests are reflected at fair value. Tangible assets consist
primarily of land, building and improvements. Identifiable
intangible assets and liabilities primarily consist of the above
or below market component of in-place leases and the value of
in-place leases. The total amount of other intangible assets
acquired is further allocated to in-place lease values and
customer relationship values based on management's
evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant's lease
and our overall relationship with respect to that tenant. 
  
  
The allocation of the purchase price to the related real estate
acquired (tangible assets and intangible assets and liabilities)
involves subjectivity as such allocations are based on a relative fair
value analysis. In determining the fair values that drive such
analysis, we estimate the fair value of each component of the real
estate acquired which generally includes land, buildings and
improvements, the above or below market component of in-place
leases and the value of in-place leases. Significant assumptions
used to determine such fair values include comparable land sales,
capitalization rates, discount rates, market rental rates and property
operating data, all of which can be impacted by expectations about
future market or economic conditions. Our estimates of the values
of these components affect the amount of depreciation and
amortization we record over the estimated useful life of the
property or the term of the lease.
Principles of Consolidation
 
The consolidated financial statements include our accounts,
the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and the
accounts of joint venture entities in which we own a majority
voting interest with the ability to control operations and where
no substantive participating rights or substantive kick out
rights have been granted to the noncontrolling interests. In
addition, we consolidate those entities deemed to be variable
interest entities (“VIEs”) in which we are determined to be the
primary beneficiary. All material intercompany transactions
and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. 
  
We make judgments about which entities are VIEs based on an
assessment of whether (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do
not have a controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity
investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities
without additional subordinated financial support. We make
judgments with respect to our level of influence or control of an
entity and whether we are (or are not) the primary beneficiary of a
VIE. Consideration of various factors includes, but is not limited
to, our ability to direct the activities that most significantly impact
the entity's economic performance, our form of ownership interest,
our representation on the entity's governing body, the size and
seniority of our investment, our ability and the rights of other
investors to participate in policy making decisions, replace the
manager and/or liquidate the entity, if applicable. Our ability to
correctly assess our influence or control over an entity at inception
of our involvement or on a continuous basis when determining the
primary beneficiary of a VIE affects the presentation of these
entities in our consolidated financial statements. If we perform a
primary beneficiary analysis at a date other than at inception of the
VIE, our assumptions may be different and may result in the
identification of a different primary beneficiary.
66
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Nature of Critical
Accounting EstimateAssumptions/Approach
Used
Allowance for Credit Losses on Loans Receivable
 
The allowance for credit losses is maintained at a level
believed adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans
receivable. The determination of the credit allowance is based
on a quarterly evaluation of all outstanding loans, including
general economic conditions and estimated collectability of
loan payments.  
  
The determination of the allowance for credit losses is based on a
quarterly evaluation of all outstanding loans, including general
economic conditions and estimated collectability of loan payments.
We evaluate the collectability of our loans receivable based on a
combination of factors, including, but not limited to, payment
status, historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the
borrower and guarantors, and nature, extent and value of the
underlying collateral. A loan is considered to have deteriorated
credit quality when, based on current information and events, it is
probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as
scheduled according to the contractual terms of the loan
agreement. For those loans we identified as having deteriorated
credit quality, we determine the amount of credit loss on an
individual basis. Placement on non-accrual status may be required.
Consistent with this definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed
to have deteriorated credit quality. To the extent circumstances
improve and the risk of collectability is diminished, we may return
these loans to income accrual status. While a loan is on non-
accrual status, any cash receipts are applied against the outstanding
principal balance. For the remaining loans, we assess credit loss on
a collective pool basis and use our historical loss experience for
similar loans to determine the reserve for credit losses.
67
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rates. We seek to mitigate the underlying foreign currency exposures with gains and losses on derivative
contracts hedging these exposures. We seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new
investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. We may or may not elect to use financial derivative
instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate
investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our
perception of the future volatility of interest rates. This section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with
potential fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. For more information, see Notes 12 and 17 to our
consolidated financial statements.
We historically borrow on our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program to acquire, construct or make
loans relating to health care and seniors housing properties. Then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term
fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program. We are subject
to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of
refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. The majority of our borrowings were completed under
indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. Accordingly, in the event that we are
unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be
limited.
A change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. Interest rate changes, however,
will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. Changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could
have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable
rate debt or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. To illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate markets, we performed a
sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a
hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the instruments’ change in fair value. The following table summarizes the
analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands):
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
 Principal balance Change in fair value Principal balance Change in fair value
Senior unsecured notes $ 9,943,501 $ (761,581) $ 9,724,691 $ (751,848)
Secured debt 1,702,196 (57,756) 1,814,229 (69,756)
Totals $ 11,645,697 $ (819,337) $ 11,538,920 $ (821,604)
Our variable rate debt, including our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, is reflected at fair value.
At December 31, 2020, we had $2,241,909,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. Assuming no changes in outstanding
balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $22,420,000. At December 31, 2019,
we had $3,470,584,000 outstanding under our variable rate debt. Assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in
interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $34,706,000.
We are subject to currency fluctuations that may, from time to time, affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Increases or decreases in the value of the Canadian Dollar or British Pounds Sterling relative to the U.S. Dollar impact the amount
of net income we earn from our investments in Canada and the United Kingdom. Based solely on our results for the year ended
December 31, 2020, including the impact of existing hedging arrangements, if these exchange rates were to increase or decrease by
10%, our net income from these investments would increase or decrease, as applicable, by less than $3,000,000. We will continue
to mitigate these underlying foreign currency exposures with non-U.S. denominated borrowings and gains and losses on derivative
contracts. If we increase our international presence through investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and
health care properties outside the U.S., we may also decide to transact additional business or borrow funds in currencies other than
U.S. Dollars, Canadian Dollars or British Pounds Sterling. To illustrate the impact of changes in foreign currency markets, we
performed a sensitivity analysis on our derivative portfolio whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a
hypothetical 1% increase in foreign currency exchange rates to determine the instruments’ change in fair value. The following table
summarizes the results of the analysis performed, excluding cross currency hedge activity (dollars in thousands):
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
 Carrying value Change in fair value Carrying value Change in fair value
Foreign currency exchange contracts $ 61,851 $ 12,731 $ 26,767 $ 12,136 
Debt designated as hedges 1,630,542 16,305 1,586,1 16 15,861 
Totals $ 1,692,393 $ 29,036 $ 1,612,883 $ 27,997 
68
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Welltower Inc. 
Opinion on the Financial Statements 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of
December 31, 2020 and 2019, the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes and financial statement schedules listed in the Index at
Item 15(a) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2020 and 2019 and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)
(PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in
Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(2013 framework) and our report dated February 10, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion 
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are
required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules
and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error
or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements,
whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test
basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the
financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that
were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are
material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The
communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a
whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters
or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
    Impairment of Real Property
Description of the Matter At December 31, 2020, the Company’s net real property owned was approximately $27.6 billion. As
discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company reviews its real property
quarterly on a property-by-property basis to determine if facts and circumstances suggest that the
real property may be impaired. If the undiscounted cash flows indicate that the real property will not
be recoverable, the carrying value of the real property is reduced to its estimated fair value and an
impairment charge is recognized for the difference between the carrying value and the fair value.
Auditing the Company’s process to evaluate real property owned for impairment was complex due
to the high degree of subjectivity in determining whether indicators of impairment were present for
certain properties, and in determining the future undiscounted cash flows and estimated fair values,
if necessary, of properties where indicators of impairment were determined to be present. In
particular, the undiscounted cash flows and fair value estimates were sensitive to significant
assumptions, including future rental revenues and operating expenses, capitalization rates, and
anticipated hold period, which are affected by expectations about future market or economic
conditions.
How We Addressed the
Matter in Our Audit
 
        We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design, and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company’s
process to evaluate real property owned for impairment. This
69
included testing controls over the Company’s review of impairment indicators by property and
management's review and approval of the significant assumptions described above.
To test the Company's evaluation of real property for impairment, we performed audit procedures
that included, among others, assessing the methodologies used by management, evaluating the
significant assumptions discussed above and testing the completeness and accuracy of the
underlying data used by the Company in its analyses. We compared the significant assumptions
used by management to current industry and economic trends and evaluated whether changes to the
Company’s business and other relevant factors would affect the significant assumptions. In addition,
we assessed the historical accuracy of the Company’s estimates and performed sensitivity analyses
of the significant assumptions to evaluate the changes in the undiscounted future cash flows and
estimated fair values of the property that would result from changes in the significant assumptions.
    Real Estate Acquisitions
Description of the Matter During 2020, the Company completed approximately $904 million of real estate acquisitions. As
disclosed in Note 3 of the consolidated financial statements, the total purchase price for all
properties acquired has been allocated to the related real estate acquired (tangible assets and
identifiable intangible assets and liabilities) based upon their relative fair values.
Auditing the fair values allocated by management to the real estate acquired was complex because
the fair value estimates were sensitive to significant assumptions, including comparable land sales,
capitalization rates, discount rates, market rental rates and property operating data, which can be
impacted by expectations about future market or economic conditions.
How We Addressed the
Matter in Our Audit
    We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design, and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company’s
process to account for real estate acquisitions, including controls over the Company’s review of the
significant assumptions discussed above.
To test the fair values allocated to the real estate acquired, we performed audit procedures that
included, among others, assessing the methodologies used by management and evaluating the
significant assumptions used by the Company discussed above. We compared certain of
management’s assumptions to external market data for similar properties and tested the clerical
accuracy of the valuation models. We involved our valuation specialist in our evaluation of the
significant assumptions used by the Company and the review of the valuation models.
/s/  Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1970.
Toledo, Ohio
February 10, 2021
70
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(in thousands)
December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Assets  
Real estate investments:   
Real property owned:   
Land and land improvements $ 3,440,650  $ 3,486,620  
Buildings and improvements 28,024,971  29,163,305  
Acquired lease intangibles 1,500,030  1,617,051  
Real property held for sale, net of accumulated depreciation 216,613  1,253,008  
Construction in progress 487,742  507,931  
Gross real property owned 33,670,006  36,027,915  
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization (6,104,297 ) (5,715,459 )
Net real property owned 27,565,709  30,312,456  
Right of use assets, net 465,866  536,433  
Real estate loans receivable, net of credit allowance 443,372  270,382  
Net real estate investments 28,474,947  31,119,271  
Other assets:
Investments in unconsolidated entities 946,234  583,423  
Goodwill 68,321  68,321  
Cash and cash equivalents 1,545,046  284,917  
Restricted cash 475,997  100,849  
Straight-line rent receivable 344,066  466,222  
Receivables and other assets 629,031  757,748  
Total other assets 4,008,695  2,261,480  
Total assets $ 32,483,642  $ 33,380,751  
Liabilities and equity
Liabilities:
Unsecured credit facility and commercial paper $ — $ 1,587,597  
Senior unsecured notes 11,420,790  10,336,513  
Secured debt 2,377,930  2,990,962  
Lease liabilities 418,266  473,693  
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 1,041,594  1,009,482  
Total liabilities 15,258,580  16,398,247  
Redeemable noncontrolling interests 343,490  475,877  
Equity:
Common stock 418,691  411,005  
Capital in excess of par value 20,823,145  20,190,1 19 
Treasury stock (104,490 ) (78,955 )
Cumulative net income 8,327,598  7,353,966  
Cumulative dividends (13,343,721 ) (12,223,534 )
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (148,504 ) (112,157 )
Total W elltower Inc. stockholders’ equity 15,972,719  15,540,444  
Noncontrolling interests 908,853  966,183  
Total equity 16,881,572  16,506,627  
Total liabilities and equity $ 32,483,642  $ 33,380,751  
See accompanying notes
71
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(In thousands, except per share data)
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Revenues:
Resident fees and services $ 3,074,022  $ 3,448,175  $ 3,234,852  
Rental income 1,443,360  1,588,400  1,380,422  
Interest income 69,156  63,830  55,814  
Other income 19,429  20,901  29,41 1 
Total revenues 4,605,967  5,121,306  4,700,499  
Expenses:
Property operating expenses 2,597,823  2,690,042  2,433,017  
Depreciation and amortization 1,038,437  1,027,073  950,459  
Interest expense 514,388  555,559  526,592  
General and administrative expenses 128,394  126,549  126,383  
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 11,049  (4,399 ) (4,016 )
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 47,049  84,155  16,097  
Provision for loan losses 94,436  18,690  — 
Impairment of assets 135,608  28,133  115,579  
Other expenses 70,335  52,612  112,898  
Total expenses 4,637,519  4,578,414  4,277,009  
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and other
items (31,552 ) 542,892  423,490  
Income tax (expense) benefit (9,968 ) (2,957 ) (8,674 )
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (8,083 ) 42,434  (641)
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 1,088,455  748,041  415,575  
Income (loss) from continuing operations 1,038,852  1,330,410  829,750  
Net income 1,038,852  1,330,410  829,750  
Less:  Preferred stock dividends — — 46,704  
Less:  Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 60,008  97,978  24,796  
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 978,844  $ 1,232,432  $ 758,250  
Average number of common shares outstanding:
Basic 415,451  401,845  373,620  
Diluted 417,387  403,808  375,250  
Earnings per share:
Basic:
Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 2.50 $ 3.31 $ 2.22 
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 2.36 $ 3.07 $ 2.03 
Diluted:
Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 2.49 $ 3.29 $ 2.21 
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 2.33 $ 3.05 $ 2.02 
 Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests
 Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP unitholders.
See accompanying notes(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
72
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (CONTINUED)
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(In thousands)
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Net income $ 1,038,852  $ 1,330,410  $ 829,750  
Other comprehensive income (loss):
Unrecognized actuarial gain (loss) — 540 344 
Foreign currency translation gain (loss) 103,612  161,915  (253,022 )
Derivative and financial instruments designated as hedges gain (loss) (134,369 ) (131,120 ) 211,390  
Total other comprehensive income (loss) (30,757 ) 31,335  (41,288 )
Total comprehensive income (loss) 1,008,095  1,361,745  788,462  
Less: T otal comprehensive income (loss) attributable to
noncontrolling interests 65,598  111,701  1,812  
Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 942,497  $ 1,250,044  $ 786,650  
 Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests.
See accompanying notes(1)
(1)
73
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(in thousands)
Preferred
StockCommon
StockCapital in
Excess of
Par ValueTreasury
StockCumulative
Net IncomeCumulative
DividendsAccumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss)Noncontrolling
Interests Total
Balances at December 31,
2017 $718,503 $372,449 $17,663,351 $(64,559)$5,316,580 $(9,471,712)$ (111,465)$ 502,305 $14,925,452 
Comprehensive income:
Net income (loss) 804,954 25,065 830,019 
Other comprehensive
income (loss) (18,304) (22,984) (41,288)
Total comprehensive
income 788,731 
Net change in
noncontrolling interests (43,101) 449,879 406,778 
Amounts related to issuance
of common stock from
dividend reinvestment and
stock incentive plans, net of
forfeitures 188 27,901 (3,940) 24,149 
Net proceeds from issuance
of common stock 11,828 776,506 788,334 
Conversion of preferred
stock (5) 5 — 
Dividends paid:
Common stock
dividends (1,300,141) (1,300,141)
Preferred stock
dividends (46,704) (46,704)
Balances at December 31,
2018 718,498 384,465 18,424,662 (68,499)6,121,534 (10,818,557) (129,769) 954,265 15,586,599 
Comprehensive income:
Net income (loss) 1,232,432 67,365 1,299,797 
Other comprehensive
income (loss) 17,612 13,440 31,052 
Total comprehensive
income 1,330,849 
Net change in
noncontrolling interests 3,583 (68,887) (65,304)
Amounts related to issuance
of common stock from
dividend reinvestment and
stock incentive plans, net of
forfeitures 162 25,163 (10,456) 14,869 
Net proceeds from issuance
of common stock 13,666 1,030,925 1,044,591 
Conversion of preferred
stock (718,498) 12,712 705,786 — 
Dividends paid:
Common stock
dividends (1,404,977) (1,404,977)
Balances at December 31,
2019 — 411,005 20,190,119 (78,955)7,353,966 (12,223,534) (112,157) 966,183 16,506,627 
Cumulative change in
accounting principle (Note
2) (5,212) (5,212)
Balances at January 1, 2020
(as adjusted for change in
accounting principle) — 411,005 20,190,119 (78,955)7,348,754 (12,223,534) (112,157) 966,183 16,501,415 
Comprehensive income:
Net income (loss) 978,844 98,910 1,077,754 
Other comprehensive
income (loss) (36,347) 5,493 (30,854)
Total comprehensive
income 1,046,900 
Net change in
noncontrolling interests 18,158 (161,733) (143,575)
Amounts related to issuance
of common stock from
dividend reinvestment and
stock incentive plans, net of
forfeitures 622 27,666 (17,879) 10,409 
Net proceeds from issuance
of common stock 7,064 587,202 594,266 
Repurchase of common
stock (7,656) (7,656)
Dividends paid:
Common stock
dividends (1,120,187) (1,120,187)
Balances at December 31,
2020 $ — $418,691 $20,823,145 $(104,490)$8,327,598 $(13,343,721)$ (148,504)$ 908,853 $16,881,572 
See accompanying notes
74
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(in thousands)
Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Operating activities:
Net income $ 1,038,852 $ 1,330,410 $ 829,750 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided from (used in) operating
activities:
Depreciation and amortization 1,038,437 1,027,073 950,459 
Other amortization expenses 13,213 16,827 17,000 
Provision for loan losses 94,436 18,690 — 
Impairment of assets 135,608 28,133 115,579 
Stock-based compensation expense 28,318 25,047 27,646 
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 11,049 (4,399) (4,016)
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 47,049 84,155 16,097 
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 8,083 (42,434) 641 
Rental income less than ( in excess of) cash received 60,254 (106,331) (32,857)
Amortization related to above (below) market leases, net (1,870) (676) 2,608 
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (1,088,455) (748,041) (415,575)
Distributions by unconsolidated entities 11,601 — 21 
Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other liabilities 22,764 (29,068) 70,762 
Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets (54,583) (63,418) 5,829 
Net cash provided from (used in) operating activities 1,364,756 1,535,968 1,583,944 
Investing activities:
Cash disbursed for acquisitions, net of cash acquired (903,756) (3,959,683) (3,560,360)
Cash disbursed for capital improvements to existing properties (244,989) (328,824) (266,183)
Cash disbursed for construction in progress (201,336) (323,488) (160,706)
Capitalized interest (17,472) (15,272) (7,905)
Investment in loans receivable (247,543) (119,699) (112,048)
Principal collected on loans receivable 31,548 127,706 203,935 
Other investments, net of payments 7,726 (8,282) (44,535)
Contributions to unconsolidated entities (411,154) (279,631) (136,854)
Distributions by unconsolidated entities 48,195 216,231 90,916 
Proceeds from (payments on) derivatives (13,319) (8,499) 65,399 
Proceeds from sales of real property 4,300,028 2,650,650 1,541,870 
Net cash provided from (used in) investing activities 2,347,928 (2,048,791) (2,386,471)
Financing activities:
Net increase (decrease) under unsecured credit facility and commercial paper (1,587,597) 440,597 428,000 
Proceeds from issuance of senior unsecured notes 1,588,549 3,974,559 2,824,176 
Payments to extinguish senior unsecured notes (566,248) (3,335,290) (1,450,000)
Net proceeds from the issuance of secured debt 62,055 343,696 45,447 
Payments on secured debt (694,995) (284,433) (362,841)
Net proceeds from the issuance of common stock 595,313 1,056,125 789,575 
Repurchase of common stock (7,656) — — 
Payments for deferred financing costs and prepayment penalties (39,087) (84,142) (29,691)
Contributions by noncontrolling interests 44,023 55,365 39,207 
Distributions to noncontrolling interests (333,489) (172,940) (109,871)
Cash distributions to stockholders (1,119,232) (1,400,712) (1,348,863)
Other financing activities (22,494) (15,675) (6,771)
Net cash provided from (used in) financing activities (2,080,858) 577,150 818,368 
Effect of foreign currency translation on cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash 3,451 5,310 (9,015)
Increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 1,635,277 69,637 6,826 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period 385,766 316,129 309,303 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period $ 2,021,043 $ 385,766 $ 316,129 
Supplemental cash flow information:
Interest paid $ 508,454 $ 574,536 $ 501,404 
Income taxes paid 13,671 14,338 2,250 
 Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests.
See accompanying notes.(1)
(1)
(1)
75
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Business 
Welltower Inc., an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care
infrastructure. The company invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the
real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care
experience. Welltower™, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth
markets in the United States (“U.S.”), Canada and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), consisting of seniors housing and post-acute
communities and outpatient medical properties. 
2. Accounting Policies and Related Matters
Use of Estimates
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements
and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint venture (“JV”) entities
that we control, through voting rights or other means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in
consolidation. At inception of JV transactions, we identify entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting
rights (“variable interest entities” or “VIEs”) and determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations.
A VIE is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial
interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional subordinated financial
support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary. Accounting Standards
Codification Topic 810, Consolidations (“ASC 810”), requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to determining whether
or not a VIE will need to be consolidated. This evaluation is based on an enterprise’s ability to direct and influence the activities of
a VIE that most significantly impact that entity’s economic performance. For investments in JVs, U.S. GAAP may preclude
consolidation by the sole general partner in certain circumstances based on the type of rights held by the limited partner(s). We
assess the limited partners’ rights and their impact on our consolidation conclusions, and we reassess if there is a change to the
terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership of
limited partnership interests, or there is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. We
similarly evaluate the rights of managing members of limited liability companies.
Revenue Recognition
For our Triple-net and Outpatient Medical segments, a significant source of our revenue is generated through leasing
arrangements. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease
period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded
based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. Leases in our Outpatient Medical portfolio typically include some
form of operating expense reimbursement by the tenant. Certain payments made to operators are treated as lease incentives and
amortized as a reduction of revenue over the lease term. 
For our Seniors Housing Operating segment, revenue from resident fees and services is predominantly service-based, and
generally is recognized monthly as services are provided. Agreements with residents generally have a term of one year and are
cancellable by the resident with 30 days’ notice. Management contracts are present in some of our joint venture agreements to
provide asset and property management, leasing, marketing and other services.
Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of
collectability risk.
We recognize gains on the disposition of real estate when the recognition criteria have been met, generally at the time the risks
and rewards and title have transferred and we no longer have substantial continuing involvement with the real estate sold. We
recognize losses from disposition of real estate when known.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Restricted Cash
Restricted cash primarily consists of amounts held by lenders to provide future payments for real estate taxes, insurance, tenant
and capital improvements, amounts held in escrow relating to transactions we are entitled to receive over a period of time as
outlined in the escrow agreement and net proceeds from property sales that were executed as tax-deferred dispositions under
Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) Section 1031.
76
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Deferred Loan Expenses
Deferred loan expenses are costs incurred by us in connection with the issuance, assumption and amendments of debt
arrangements. Deferred loan expenses related to debt instruments, excluding the primary unsecured credit facility, are recorded as a
reduction of the related debt liability. Deferred loan expenses related to the primary unsecured credit facility are included in other
assets. We amortize these costs over the term of the debt using the straight-line method, which approximates the effective interest
method.
Investments in Unconsolidated Entities
Investments in entities that we do not consolidate but have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and
financial policies are reported under the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, our share of the investee’s earnings
or losses is included in our consolidated results of operations. The initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is
based on the amount paid to purchase the entity interest inclusive of transaction costs. To the extent that our cost basis is different
from the basis reflected at the entity level, the basis difference is generally amortized over the lives of the related assets and
liabilities, and such amortization is included in our share of equity in earnings of the entity. We evaluate our equity method
investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair value of the equity method investment to its carrying
value. When we determine a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its carrying value is other-than-
temporary, an impairment is recorded.
Equity Securities
Equity securities are measured at fair value with gains and losses recognized in loss (gain) on derivatives and financial
instruments, net in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests
Certain noncontrolling interests are redeemable at fair value. Accordingly, we record the carrying amount of the noncontrolling
interests at the greater of (i) the initial carrying amount, increased or decreased for the noncontrolling interest’s share of net income
or loss and its share of other comprehensive income or loss, and dividends or (ii) the redemption value. If it is probable that the
interests will be redeemed in the future, we accrete the carrying value to the redemption value over the period until expected
redemption, currently a weighted-average period of approximately two years. In accordance with ASC 810, the redeemable
noncontrolling interests are classified outside of permanent equity, as a mezzanine item, on the balance sheet. At December 31,
2020, the current redemption value of redeemable noncontrolling interests exceeded the carrying value of $343,490,000 by
$15,696,000.
We entered into certain DownREIT partnerships which give a real estate seller the ability to exchange its property on a tax
deferred basis for equity membership interests (“OP units”). The OP units may be redeemed any time following the first
anniversary of the date of issuance at the election of the holders for one share of our common stock per unit or, at our option, cash.
Real Property Owned
Real estate acquisitions are generally classified as asset acquisitions for which we record tangible assets and identifiable
intangible assets and liabilities at cost on a relative fair value basis. Liabilities assumed and any associated noncontrolling interests
are reflected at fair value. Tangible assets primarily consist of land, buildings and improvements.
Identifiable intangible assets and liabilities consist primarily of the above or below market component of in-place leases and the
value associated with the presence of in-place leases. The value allocable to the above or below market component of the acquired
in-place lease is determined based upon the present value (using a discount rate which reflects the risks associated with the acquired
leases) of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the lease over its remaining term, and
(ii) management’s estimate of the amounts that would be paid using fair market rates over the remaining term of the lease. The
amounts allocated to above market leases are included in acquired lease intangibles and below market leases are included in other
liabilities on the balance sheet and are amortized to rental income over the remaining terms of the respective leases or lease-up
period.
The total amount of other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease values and customer relationship values
for in-place tenants based on management’s evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease and our overall
relationship with that respective tenant. Characteristics considered by management in allocating these values include the nature and
extent of our existing business relationships with the tenant, growth prospects for developing new business with the tenant, the
tenant’s credit quality and expectations of lease renewals, among other factors. The total amount of other intangible assets acquired
is further allocated to in-place lease values for in-place residents with such value representing (i) value associated with lost revenue
related to tenant reimbursable operating costs that would be incurred in an assumed re-leasing period, and (ii) value associated with
lost rental revenue from existing leases during an assumed re-leasing period. This intangible asset is amortized over the remaining
life of the lease or the assumed re-leasing period.
77
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Real property developed by us is recorded at cost, including the capitalization of construction period interest. These properties
are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives which range from 15 to 40 years for buildings and 5 to 15
years for improvements. We consider costs incurred in conjunction with re-leasing properties, including tenant improvements and
lease commissions, to represent the acquisition of productive assets and, accordingly, such costs are reflected as investment
activities in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by property basis to determine if facts and
circumstances suggest that the assets may be impaired or that the depreciable life may need to be changed. We consider external
factors relating to each asset and the existence of a master lease which may link the cash flows of an individual asset to a larger
portfolio of assets leased to the same tenant. If these factors and the projected undiscounted cash flows of the assets over the
remaining depreciation period indicate that the assets will not be recoverable, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair
market value. In addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the
seniors housing and health care industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties
and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. Additionally, properties that meet the held for sale criteria
are recorded at the lesser of fair value less costs to sell or the carrying value.
Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.
Capitalization of Construction Period Interest
We capitalize interest costs associated with funds used for the construction of properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is
based upon the balance outstanding during the construction period using the rate of interest which approximates our company-wide
cost of financing. Our interest expense reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income has been reduced by the
amounts capitalized.
Loans Receivable
Loans receivable are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets in real estate loans receivable, net of credit allowance, or for
non-real estate loans receivable, in receivables and other assets. Real estate loans receivable consists of mortgage loans and other
real estate loans which are primarily collateralized by a first, second or third mortgage lien, a leasehold mortgage on, or an
assignment of the partnership interest in, the related properties, corporate guarantees and/or personal guarantees. Non-real estate
loans are generally corporate loans with no real estate backing. Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the
principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of collectability risks.
In Substance Real Estate Investments
We provide loans to third parties for the acquisition, development and construction of real estate. Under these arrangements, it is
possible that we will participate in the expected residual profits of the project through the sale, refinancing or acquisition of the
property. We evaluate the characteristics of each arrangement, including its risks and rewards, to determine whether they are more
similar to those associated with a loan or an investment in real estate. Arrangements with characteristics implying loan
classification are presented as real estate loans receivable and result in the recognition of interest income. Arrangements with
characteristics implying real estate joint ventures are treated as in substance real estate investments and presented as investments in
unconsolidated entities and are accounted for using the equity method. The classification of each arrangement as either a real estate
loan receivable or investment in unconsolidated entity involves judgment and relies on various factors, including market conditions,
amount and timing of expected residual profits, credit enhancements in the form of guarantees, estimated fair value of the
collateral, and significance of borrower equity in the project, among others. The classification of such arrangements is performed at
inception, and periodically reassessed when significant changes occur in the circumstances or conditions described above.
Allowance for Credit Losses on Loans Receivable
The allowance for credit losses on loans receivable is maintained at a level believed adequate to absorb potential losses in our
loans receivable. The determination of the credit allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of all outstanding loans, including
general economic conditions and estimated collectability of loan payments. We evaluate the collectability of our loans receivable
based on a combination of credit quality indicators, including, but not limited to, payment status, historical loan charge-offs,
financial strength of the borrower and guarantors, and nature, extent, and value of the underlying collateral. A loan is considered to
have deteriorated credit quality when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all
amounts due as scheduled according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. For those loans we identified as having
deteriorated credit quality we determine the amount of credit loss on an individual basis. Placement on non-accrual status may be
required. Consistent with this definition, all loans on non-accrual status are deemed to have deteriorated credit quality. To the extent
circumstances improve and the risk of collectability is diminished, we may return these loans to income accrual status. While a loan
is on non-accrual status, any cash receipts are applied against the outstanding principal balance. For the remaining loans we assess
credit loss on a collective pool basis and use our historical loss experience for similar loans to determine the reserve for credit
losses.
78
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Goodwill
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is tested for impairment more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that
the asset might be impaired. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount, including goodwill, exceeds
the reporting unit’s fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount of that goodwill. We have not
had any goodwill impairments.
 Fair Value of Derivative Instruments
Derivatives are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities. The valuation of derivative instruments requires
us to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. Fair values of our derivatives are estimated by
pricing models that consider the forward yield curves and discount rates. The fair value of our forward exchange contracts are
estimated by pricing models that consider foreign currency spot rates, forward trade rates and discount rates. Such amounts and the
recognition of such amounts are subject to estimates that may change in the future. See Note 12 for additional information.
Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities
Accrued expenses and other liabilities consist of the following (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019
Accounts payable $ 101,592  $ 58,646  
Accrued interest 112,202  104,548  
Other accrued expenses 41,471  71,860  
Unearned revenues 115,41 1 183,01 1 
Taxes payable 99,916  97,094  
Other liabilities 571,002  494,323  
Total $ 1,041,594  $ 1,009,482  
Federal Income Tax
We have elected to be treated as a REIT under the applicable provisions of the IRC, commencing with our first taxable year, and
made no provision for U.S. federal income tax purposes prior to our acquisition of our taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”). As a
result of these as well as subsequent acquisitions, we now record income tax expense or benefit with respect to certain of our
entities that are taxed as TRSs under provisions similar to those applicable to regular corporations and not under the REIT
provisions. We account for deferred income taxes using the asset and liability method and recognize deferred tax assets and
liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in our consolidated financial statements or tax
returns. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial reporting
and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse.
Any increase or decrease in the deferred tax liability that results from a change in circumstances, and that causes a change in our
judgment about expected future tax consequences of events, is included in the tax provision when such changes occur. Deferred
income taxes also reflect the impact of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance is provided if we believe
it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Any increase or decrease in the
valuation allowance that results from a change in circumstances, and that causes a change in our judgment about the realizability of
the related deferred tax asset, is included in the tax provision when such changes occur. See Note 19 for additional information.
Foreign Currency
Certain of our subsidiaries’ functional currencies are the local currencies of their respective countries. We translate the results of
operations of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. Dollars using average rates of exchange in effect during the period, and we translate
balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. We record resulting currency translation adjustments
in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders’ equity, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number
of shares outstanding for the period adjusted for non-vested shares of restricted stock. The computation of diluted earnings per
share is similar to basic earnings per share, except that the number of shares is increased to include the number of additional
common shares that would have been outstanding if the potentially dilutive common shares had been issued. Additionally, net
income (loss) allocated to OP units (discussed above) has been included in the numerator and redeemable common stock related to
the OP units have been included in the denominator for the purpose of computing diluted earnings per share.
79
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Reclassifications
Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic
The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our operations and those of our operators and tenants will depend on
future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, including the scope, severity and
duration of the pandemic, the actions taken to contain the pandemic or mitigate its impact and the direct and indirect economic
effects of the pandemic and containment measures, among others. The COVID-19 pandemic could have material and adverse
effects on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the future, including but not limited to, the following:
•Our Seniors Housing Operating revenues are dependent on occupancy. Declines in occupancy are expected due to
heightened move-in criteria and screening, as well as increased mortality rates among seniors. Occupancy within our total
Seniors Housing Operating portfolio has declined as follows (unaudited):
Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec.
Spot
occupancy 85.6 % 84.9 % 82.6 % 80.9 % 79.9 % 79.3 % 78.7 % 78.4 % 78.0 % 77.3 % 76.2 %
Sequential
occupancy
change (0.7)% (2.3)% (1.7)% (1.0)% (0.6)% (0.6)% (0.3)% (0.4)% (0.7)% (1.1)%
Spot occupancy represents approximate month end occupancy for properties in operation as of February 29, 2020, including unconsolidated properties
but excluding acquisitions, dispositions and development conversions since this date.
•Increased Seniors Housing Operating expenses are expected to continue until the pandemic subsides. We experienced
incremental operational costs, net of reimbursements, of $78,792,000 related to consolidated properties for the year ended
December 31, 2020, included in property operating expenses. These expenses were incurred as a result of the introduction
of public health measures and other regulations affecting our properties, as well as additional health and safety measures
adopted by us and our operators related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including increases in labor and property cleaning
expenses and expenditures related to our efforts to procure personal protective equipment ("PPE") and supplies, net of
reimbursements. Certain new expenses incurred since the start of the pandemic may continue on an ongoing basis as part
of new health and safety protocols.
•In 2020 applications were made for amounts under Phase 2 and Phase 3 of the Provider Relief Fund related to our Seniors
Housing Operating portfolio following the announcement from the Department of Health and Human Services that it
expanded the eligibility of the Coronavirus Aid Relief, and Economic Security Act (“CARES Act”) Provider Relief Fund
to include assisted living facilities. During the fourth quarter, we received Provider Relief Funds of approximately $9
million which was recognized as a reduction to property operating expenses. To date in 2021, we have received
approximately $34 million of Provider Relief Funds.
•Our Triple-net operators are experiencing similar occupancy declines and expense increases, however, long-term/post-
acute care facilities are generally experiencing a higher degree of occupancy declines. These factors may impact our
Triple-net operators' ability to pay rent and contractual obligations. Many of our Triple-net operators have received funds
under the CARES Act Paycheck Protection Program. In addition, operators of long-term/post-acute care facilities have
generally received funds from Phase 1 of the Provider Relief Fund and operators of assisted living facilities are receiving
funds from Phase 2 of the Provider Relief Fund. Accordingly, collection of Triple-net rent due during the COVID-19
pandemic to date (from March to December) has generally been consistent with historical collection rates and no
significant rent concessions or deferrals have been made.
•Outpatient Medical rent collections through March were generally consistent with pre COVID-19 levels. During the
second quarter we executed short term rent deferrals with certain Outpatient Medical tenants which in most cases were
required to be repaid by year end. Since then we have collected approximately 99% of Outpatient Medical rent due in the
second half of the year, with uncollected amounts primarily attributable to local jurisdictions with COVID-19 related
ordinances providing temporary rent relief to tenants. Furthermore, collections of deferred rent due under executed
deferrals was over 99%. To the extent that deferred rent is not repaid as expected, or the prolonged impact of the COVID-
19 pandemic causes operators or tenants to seek further modifications of their lease agreements, we may recognize
reductions in revenue and increases in uncollectible receivables.
•Assessing properties for potential impairment involves subjectivity in determining if impairment indicators are present and
in estimating the future undiscounted cash flows or estimated fair value of the asset. Key assumptions are made in these
assessments including the estimation of future rental revenues, occupancy, operating expenses, capitalization rates and the
ability and intent to hold the respective asset. All of these assumptions are significantly affected by our expectations of
future market or economic conditions and can be highly impacted by the uncertainty of the COVID-19 pandemic. We will
continue to evaluate the assumptions used in these analyses, changes to which may result in impairments in future periods.(1)
(1) 
80
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
•The determination of the allowance for credit losses is based on our evaluation of collectability of our loans receivable and
includes review of factors such as delinquency status, historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the borrower and
guarantors and the value of the underlying collateral. Reduced economic activity severely impacts our borrowers'
businesses, financial conditions and liquidity and may hinder their ability to make contractual payments to us, leading to
an increase in loans deemed to have deteriorated credit which could result in an increase in the provision for loan losses.
New Accounting Standards
•On January 1, 2020, we adopted ASU 2016-13, “Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments" ("ASU 2016-
13"). This standard requires a new forward-looking “expected loss” model to be used for receivables, held-to-maturity
debt, loans, and other instruments. In November 2018, the FASB issued an amendment excluding operating lease
receivables accounted for under the new leases standard from the scope of the new credit losses standard. ASU 2016-13
primarily impacts our measurement for credit losses related to our real estate and non-real estate loans receivable. In
conjunction with our adoption of ASU 2016-13, we recorded a $5,212,000 increase to our allowance for credit losses on
loans receivable (both real estate and non-real estate) with a corresponding adjustment to cumulative net income related to
the change in accounting principle. See Note 7 for further details.
•At the FASB's April 8, 2020 Board meeting, the staff acknowledged that the economics of lease concessions that result
from a global pandemic may not be aligned with the underlying premise of the modification framework in ASC 842, under
which the concession would be recognized over the remainder of the lease term. In a Q&A document, the FASB provided
entities with COVID-19 related lease concessions an option to either (1) apply the modification framework for these
concessions in accordance with ASC 842 as applicable or (2) account for concessions as if they were made under the
enforceable rights included in the original agreement as long as total cash flows resulting from the modified contract are
substantially the same or less than cash flows in the original contract. Due to the continuing adverse economic conditions
caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, certain tenants and operators have requested rent relief, most often in the form of a
short-term rent deferral. Not all requests result in modification of agreements, nor do we intend to forgo our contractual
rights under our lease agreements. We evaluate each rent relief request on an individual basis. To date, the majority of rent
deferral agreements resulted in two months of full or partial rent relief to be repaid by the end of the year unless local
ordinances mandate otherwise. We have elected to apply the accounting relief provided by the FASB to such short-term
rent deferrals, and will account for such deferrals as if no change had been made to the original lease contract.
•In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-06, “Debt-Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and
Derivatives and Hedging-Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40) Accounting for Convertible Instruments and
Contracts in an Entity’s Own Equity”. This ASU simplifies accounting for convertible instruments and removes certain
settlement conditions that are required for equity contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception. This ASU also
simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas and provides updated disclosure requirements. We are
currently evaluating the guidance and the impact it may have on our consolidated financial statements.
3. Real Property Acquisitions and Development 
The total purchase price for all properties acquired has been allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets and
liabilities at cost on a relative fair value basis. Liabilities assumed and any associated noncontrolling interests are reflected at fair
value. The results of operations for these acquisitions have been included in our consolidated results of operations since the date of
acquisition and are a component of the appropriate segments. Transaction costs primarily represent costs incurred with acquisitions,
including due diligence costs, fees for legal and valuation services, termination of pre-existing relationships computed based on the
fair value of the assets acquired, lease termination fees and other acquisition-related costs. Transaction costs related to asset
acquisitions are capitalized as a component of purchase price and all other non-capitalizable costs are reflected in other expenses on
our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
81
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following is a summary of our real property investment activity by segment for the periods presented (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31, 2020
 Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-netOutpatient
Medical Total
Land and land improvements  $ 55,000  $ 16,876  $ 45,590  $ 117,466  
Buildings and improvements  527,189  73,855  179,004  780,048  
Acquired lease intangibles  28,668  — 24,718  53,386  
Total net real estate assets 610,857  90,731  249,312  950,900  
Receivables and other assets 746 — 268 1,014  
Total assets acquired 611,603  90,731  249,580  951,914  
Accrued expenses and other liabilities (1,650 ) — (962) (2,612 )
Total liabilities assumed (1,650 ) — (962) (2,612 )
Noncontrolling interests (45,546 ) — — (45,546 )
 Cash disbursed for acquisitions 564,407  90,731  248,618  903,756  
Construction in progress additions 134,945  45,256  39,833  220,034  
Less: Capitalized interest (10,389 ) (3,209 ) (3,874 ) (17,472 )
Accruals (1,226 ) — — (1,226 )
Cash disbursed for construction in progress 123,330  42,047  35,959  201,336  
Capital improvements to existing properties 107,379  76,625  60,985  244,989  
Total cash invested in real property , net of cash acquired  $ 795,1 16 $ 209,403  $ 345,562  $ 1,350,081  
 Excludes $580,000 of unrestricted and restricted cash acquired.
 Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests.
Represents non-cash accruals for amounts to be paid in future periods for properties that converted, off-set by amounts paid in the current period.
Year Ended December 31, 2019
 Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-netOutpatient
Medical Total
Land and land improvements  $ 154,470  $ 24,097  $ 293,933  $ 472,500  
Buildings and improvements  1,518,748  203,282  1,954,928  3,676,958  
Acquired lease intangibles  76,009  — 183,921  259,930  
Real property held for sale 17,435  — — 17,435  
Construction in progress 36,174  — — 36,174  
Right of use assets, net — — 58,377  58,377  
Total net real estate assets 1,802,836  227,379  2,491,159  4,521,374  
Receivables and other assets  15,634  — 1,586  17,220  
Total assets acquired 1,818,470  227,379  2,492,745  4,538,594  
Secured debt  (194,408 ) — (206,754 ) (401,162 )
Lease liabilities — — (47,740 ) (47,740 )
Accrued expenses and other liabilities (12,024 ) — (32,893 ) (44,917 )
Total liabilities assumed (206,432 ) — (287,387 ) (493,819 )
Noncontrolling interests (67,987 ) (4,015 ) (1,201 ) (73,203 )
Non-cash acquisition related activity (11,889 ) — — (11,889 )
Cash disbursed for acquisitions 1,532,162  223,364  2,204,157  3,959,683  
Construction in progress additions 227,018  61,414  60,884  349,316  
Less: Capitalized interest (8,889 ) (2,385 ) (3,998 ) (15,272 )
Accruals — — (1,035 ) (1,035 )
Cash disbursed for construction in progress 218,129  59,029  55,851  333,009  
Capital improvements to existing properties 260,413  17,426  50,985  328,824  
Total cash invested in real property , net of cash acquired $ 2,010,704  $ 299,819  $ 2,310,993  $ 4,621,516  
 Excludes $2,090,000 of unrestricted and restricted cash acquired.
 Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests.
 Relates to the acquisition of assets previously recognized as investments in unconsolidated entities.
 Represents non-cash accruals for amounts to be paid in future periods for properties that converted, off-set by amounts paid in the current period.(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3) 
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
82
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year Ended December 31, 2018
 Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-netOutpatient
Medical Total
Land and land improvements  $ 51,440  $ 413,588  $ 77,239  $ 542,267  
Buildings and improvements  621,731  2,242,884  478,740  3,343,355  
Acquired lease intangibles  69,504  9,690  50,813  130,007  
Real property held for sale — 396,265  22,032  418,297  
Total net real estate assets 742,675  3,062,427  628,824  4,433,926  
Receivables and other assets  1,492  1,354  1,185  4,031  
Total assets acquired 744,167  3,063,781  630,009  4,437,957  
Secured debt  (134,752 ) — (169,156 ) (303,908 )
Accrued expenses and other liabilities (18,463 ) (13,199 ) (14,896 ) (46,558 )
Total liabilities assumed (153,215 ) (13,199 ) (184,052 ) (350,466 )
Noncontrolling interests (14,390 ) (512,741 ) — (527,131 )
Cash disbursed for acquisitions 576,562  2,537,841  445,957  3,560,360  
Construction in progress additions 82,621  55,558  26,565  164,744  
Less: Capitalized interest (3,190 ) (2,238 ) (2,477 ) (7,905 )
Accruals — — (339) (339)
Cash disbursed for construction in progress 79,431  53,320  23,749  156,500  
Capital improvements to existing properties 201,001  10,046  55,136  266,183  
Total cash invested in real property , net of cash acquired $ 856,994  $ 2,601,207  $ 524,842  $ 3,983,043  
 Excludes $395,397,000 of unrestricted and restricted cash acquired.
 Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests.
 Represents non-cash accruals for amounts to be paid in future periods for properties that converted, off-set by amounts paid in the current period.
Acquisition of Quality Care Properties
On July 26, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Quality Care Properties Inc. ("QCP"), with QCP shareholders receiving
$20.75 of cash for each share of QCP common stock and all existing QCP debt was repaid upon closing. Prior to the acquisition,
ProMedica Health System ("ProMedica") completed the acquisition of HCR ManorCare. Immediately following the acquisition of
QCP, we formed an 80/20 joint venture with ProMedica to own the real estate associated with the 218 seniors housing properties
leased to ProMedica under a lease agreement with the following key terms: (i) 15-year absolute triple-net master lease with three 5-
year renewal options; (ii) initial annual cash rent of $179 million with a year one escalator of 1.375% and 2.75% annual escalators
thereafter; and (iii) full corporate guarantee of ProMedica. Additionally, we acquired 59 seniors housing properties classified as
held for sale and leased to ProMedica under a non-yielding lease, 12 seniors housing properties and one surgery center classified as
held for sale and leased to operators under existing triple-net leases, 14 seniors housing properties leased to operators under existing
triple-net leases and one multi-tenant medical office building leased to various tenants. The aggregate consideration to acquire the
QCP shares and repay outstanding QCP debt was approximately $3.5 billion.
We concluded that the QCP acquisition met the definition of an asset acquisition under ASU 2017-01, "Clarifying the Definition
of a Business". The following table presents the purchase price calculation and the allocation to assets acquired and liabilities
assumed based upon their relative fair value:
(In thousands)
Land and land improvements $ 417,983  
Buildings and improvements 2,253,451  
Acquired lease intangibles 12,820  
Real property held for sale 418,297  
Cash and cash equivalents 381,913  
Restricted cash 4,981  
Receivables and other assets 1,354  
Total assets acquired 3,490,799  
Accrued expenses and other liabilities  (13,199 )
Total liabilities assumed (13,199 )
Noncontrolling interests (512,741 )
Net assets acquired $ 2,964,859  (1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
83
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Construction Activity 
The following is a summary of the construction projects that were placed into service and began generating revenues during the
periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
Development projects:
Seniors Housing Operating $ 93,188  $ 28,117 $ 86,931  
Triple-net 75,149  — 90,055  
Outpatient Medical 43,493  21,006  11,358  
Total development projects 211,830  49,123  188,344  
Expansion projects 48,600  — 20,029  
Total construction in progress conversions $ 260,430  $ 49,123  $ 208,373  
 
4. Real Estate Intangibles 
The following is a summary of our real estate intangibles, excluding those classified as held for sale, as of the dates indicated
(dollars in thousands):
December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Assets:
In place lease intangibles $ 1,406,705  $ 1,513,836  
Above market tenant leases 52,621  59,540  
Lease commissions 40,704  43,675  
Gross historical cost 1,500,030  1,617,051  
Accumulated amortization (1,177,513 ) (1,181,158 )
Net book value $ 322,517  $ 435,893  
Weighted-average amortization period in years 10.5 10.3
Liabilities:
Below market tenant leases $ 77,851  $ 99,035  
Accumulated amortization (40,871 ) (49,390 )
Net book value $ 36,980  $ 49,645  
Weighted-average amortization period in years 8.3 8.6
The following is a summary of real estate intangible amortization income (expense) for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Rental income related to (above)/below market tenant leases, net $ 1,710  $ 508 $ (1,269 )
Amortization related to in place lease intangibles and lease commissions (121,004 ) (135,047 ) (122,515 )
The future estimated aggregate amortization of intangible assets and liabilities is as follows for the periods presented (in
thousands):
 Assets Liabilities
2021 $ 78,160  $ 7,993  
2022 43,726  7,320  
2023 34,071  5,158  
2024 26,524  3,049  
2025 21,324  2,482  
Thereafter 118,712  10,978  
Totals $ 322,517  $ 36,980  
84
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5. Dispositions, Real Property Held for Sale and Impairment
We periodically sell properties for various reasons, including favorable market conditions, the exercise of tenant purchase options
or reduction of concentrations (e.g. property type, relationship or geography). At December 31, 2020, four Seniors Housing
Operating, one Triple-net and ten Outpatient Medical properties with an aggregate net real estate balance of $216,613,000 were
classified as held for sale for which we expect gross sales proceeds of approximately $276,363,000. In addition to the real property
balances held for sale, net other assets and (liabilities) of $35,811,000 are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to
held for sale properties.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded impairment charges of $87,873,000 related to 15 Seniors Housing
Operating and one Triple-net properties which were disposed of or classified as held for sale for which the carrying value exceeded
the fair values, less estimated costs to sell. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded $47,735,000 of
impairment charges related to six Seniors Housing Operating and four Triple-net properties that were held for use in which the
carrying value exceed the fair value. The following is a summary of our real property disposition activity for the periods presented
(in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
Real estate dispositions:
Seniors Housing Operating $ 1,289,769  $ 1,232,816  $ 36,627  
Triple-net 51,666  667,632  835,093  
Outpatient Medical 1,755,864  482 253,397  
Total dispositions 3,097,299  1,900,930  1,125,1 17 
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 1,088,455  748,041  415,575  
Net other assets (liabilities) disposed 114,274  1,679  1,178  
Proceeds from real estate dispositions $ 4,300,028  $ 2,650,650  $ 1,541,870  
Operating results attributable to properties sold or classified as held for sale which do not meet the definition of discontinued
operations, are not reclassified on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. The following represents the activity
related to these properties for the periods presented (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Revenues:
Total revenues $ 257,089  $ 712,529  $ 916,896  
Expenses:
Interest expense 6,665  18,506  18,801  
Property operating expenses 134,1 19 375,327  495,770  
Provision for depreciation 55,114 138,041  189,909  
Total expenses 195,898  531,874  704,480  
Income (loss) from real estate dispositions, net $ 61,191  $ 180,655  $ 212,416  
6. Leases
We lease land, buildings, office space and certain equipment. Many of our leases include a renewal option to extend the term
from one to 25 years or more. Renewal options that we are reasonably certain to exercise are recognized in our right-of-use assets
and lease liabilities. As most of our leases do not provide a rate implicit in the lease agreement, we use our incremental borrowing
rate available at lease commencement to determine the present value of lease payments. The incremental borrowing rates were
determined using our longer term borrowing rates (actual pricing through 30 years, as well as other longer-term market rates).
We sublease certain real estate to a third party. Our sublease portfolio consists of a finance lease for seven buildings which are
subleased to Genesis Healthcare.
85
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The components of lease expense were as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
Year Ended
 Classification December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Operating lease cost: 
Real estate lease expense Property operating expenses $ 23,472  $ 25,166  
Non-real estate investment lease expense General and administrative expenses 4,745  1,654  
Finance lease cost:
Amortization of leased assets Property operating expenses 8,203  7,795  
Interest on lease liabilities Interest expense 6,411 4,748  
Sublease income Rental income (4,173 ) (4,173 )
Total  $ 38,658  $ 35,190  
 Includes short-term leases which are immaterial.
Maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2020 are as follows (in thousands):
Operating Leases Finance Leases
2021 $ 20,316  $ 8,777  
2022 19,051  8,587  
2023 19,082  69,439  
2024 18,380  1,491  
2025 15,575  1,459  
Thereafter 910,134  107,674  
Total lease payments 1,002,538  197,427  
Less: Imputed interest (691,374 ) (90,325 )
Total present value of lease liabilities $ 311,164  $ 107,102  
Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases was as follows for the periods presented (in thousands, except lease
terms and discount rate):
 Classification December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Right of use assets:
Operating leases - real estate Right of use assets, net $ 310,017  $ 374,217  
Finance leases - real estate Right of use assets, net 155,849  162,216  
Real estate right of use assets, net 465,866  536,433  
Operating leases - non-real estate investments Receivables and other assets 9,624  12,474  
Total right of use assets, net $ 475,490  $ 548,907  
Lease liabilities:
Operating leases $ 311,164  $ 364,803  
Financing leases 107,102  108,890  
Total lease liabilities $ 418,266  $ 473,693  
Weighted average remaining lease term (years):
Operating leases 46.9 46.0
Finance leases 17.7 15.9
Weighted average discount rate:
Operating leases 5.02 % 5.00 %
Finance leases 5.16 % 5.18 %(1)
(1)
86
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Supplemental cash flow information related to leases was as follows for the periods indicated (in thousands):
Year Ended
Cash Paid for Amounts Included in the 
 Measurement of Lease Liabilities ClassificationDecember 31,
2020December 31,
2019
Operating cash flows from operating leases Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets $ 9,323  $ 6,397  
Operating cash flows from operating leases Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other
liabilities (3,918 ) (5,489 )
Operating cash flows from finance leases Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets 8,263  10,732  
Financing cash flows from finance leases Other financing activities (3,568 ) (3,401 )
Substantially all of our operating leases in which we are the lessor contain escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual
rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment.
Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental
payments due for the period. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we wrote off straight-line recent receivable balances of
$146,508,000 relating to leases for which collection of substantially all contractual lease payments was no longer deemed probable.
Included in such amounts was $91,025,000 relating to Genesis Healthcare whom noted substantial doubt as to their ability to
continue as a going concern in August.
Leases in our Triple-net and Outpatient Medical portfolios typically include some form of operating expense reimbursement by
the tenant. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized $1,443,360,000 of rental income related to operating leases, of
which $203,348,000 was for variable lease payments, which primarily represents the reimbursement of operating costs such as
common area maintenance expenses, utilities, insurance and real estate taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we
recognized $1,588,400,000 of rental income related to operating leases, of which $200,564,000 was for variable lease payments.
The following table sets forth the future minimum lease payments receivable for leases in effect at December 31, 2020
(excluding properties in our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio and excluding any operating expense reimbursements) (in
thousands):
2021 $ 1,405,428  
2022 1,390,915  
2023 1,332,520  
2024 1,306,595  
2025 1,236,338  
Thereafter 7,957,714  
Totals $ 14,629,510  
7. Loans Receivable
Loans receivable are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets in real estate loans receivable, net of allowance for credit
losses, or for non-real estate loans receivable, in receivables and other assets, net of allowance for credit losses. Real estate loans
receivable consists of mortgage loans and other real estate loans which are primarily collateralized by a first, second or third
mortgage lien, a leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment of the partnership interest in, the related properties, corporate guarantees
and/or personal guarantees. Non-real estate loans are generally corporate loans with no real estate backing. Interest income on loans
is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of the risk of credit loss. Accrued
interest receivable was $15,615,000 and $6,897,000 as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively, and is included
in receivables and other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The following is a summary of our loans receivable (in
thousands):
87
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019
Mortgage loans $ 299,430  $ 188,062  
Other real estate loans 152,739  124,696  
Allowance for credit losses on real estate loans receivable (8,797 ) (42,376 )
Real estate loans receivable, net of credit allowance 443,372  270,382  
Non-real estate loans 455,508  362,850  
Allowance for credit losses on non-real estate loans receivable (215,239 ) (25,996 )
Non-real estate loans receivable, net of credit allowance 240,269  336,854  
Total loans receivable, net of credit allowance $ 683,641  $ 607,236  
  Included in receivables and other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, the real estate collateral associated with one loan was released, therefore, the
principal balance of $86,411,000 and related allowance for credit losses of $42,376,000 was reclassified to non-real estate loans.
The following is a summary of our loan activity for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
Advances on loans receivable:    
Investments in new loans $ 224,078  $ 46,824  $ 77,289  
Draws on existing loans 23,465  72,875  34,759  
Net cash advances on loans receivable 247,543  119,699  112,048  
Receipts on loans receivable:
Loan payof fs 15,677  118,703  144,700  
Principal payments on loans 15,871  9,003  59,235  
Net cash receipts on loans receivable 31,548  127,706  203,935  
Net cash advances (receipts) on loans receivable $ 215,995  $ (8,007 )$ (91,887 )
The following is a summary of our loans by credit loss category (in thousands):
December 31, 2020
Loan category Years of Origination Loan Carrying V alue Allowance for Credit Loss Net Loan Balance No. of Loans
Deteriorated loans  2007 - 2018 $ 242,319  $ (212,514 )$ 29,805  6
Collective loan pool  2007 - 2015 130,436  (2,452 ) 127,984  14
Collective loan pool  2016 126,465  (2,381 ) 124,084  4
Collective loan pool  2017 126,792  (1,429 ) 125,363  7
Collective loan pool  2018 19,923  (374) 19,549  1
Collective loan pool  2019 48,819  (886) 47,933  7
Collective loan pool 2020 212,923  (4,000 ) 208,923  9
Total loans $ 907,677  $ (224,036 )$ 683,641  48 
In 2019, we recognized a provision for loan losses of $18,690,000 to fully reserve for and eventually wrote off certain Triple-net
real estate loans receivable that were no longer deemed collectible. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized
additional provision for loan losses of $88,201,000 as a result of the current collateral estimates for loans with deteriorated credit,
primarily relating to our outstanding Genesis Healthcare loans. As of December 31, 2020, the total allowance for credit losses
balance of $224,036,000 is deemed to be sufficient to absorb expected losses relating to our loan portfolio. The following is a
summary of the allowance for credit losses on loans receivable for the periods presented (in thousands):(1)
(1)
(1)
88
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Balance at beginning of year $ 68,372  $ 68,372  $ 68,372  
Adoption of ASU 2016-13 5,212  — — 
Provision for loan losses 94,436  18,690  — 
Loan write-of fs (7,000 ) (18,690 ) — 
Foreign currency translation 197 — — 
Reclassification of deferred gain as credit loss 62,819  — — 
Balance at end of year $ 224,036  $ 68,372  $ 68,372  
 During the year ended December 31, 2020, two loans receivable originated in 2016 to Genesis Healthcare with an aggregate carrying value of $62,753,000 were
transferred to the deteriorated loan pool. In addition, deferred gains of $62,819,000 previously recorded in accrued expenses and other liabilities were reclassified
to the allowance for credit losses.
The following is a summary of our deteriorated loans (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Balance of deteriorated loans at end of year $ 242,319  $ 188,018  $ 189,272  
Allowance for credit losses (212,514 ) (68,372 ) (68,372 )
Balance of deteriorated loans not reserved $ 29,805  $ 119,646  $ 120,900  
Interest recognized on deteriorated loans 18,937  16,235  17,241  
Balances include $3,623,000, $2,534,000 and 2567000 of loans on non-accrual as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
 Represents cash interest recognized in the period.
8. Investments in Unconsolidated Entities 
We participate in a number of joint ventures, which generally invest in seniors housing and health care real estate. The results of
operations for these properties have been included in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition by the joint
ventures and are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income as income or loss from unconsolidated
entities. The following is a summary of our investments in unconsolidated entities (dollars in thousands):
Percentage Ownership December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Seniors Housing Operating 10% to 65% $ 653,057  $ 463,741  
Triple-net 10% to 25% 5,629  7,740  
Outpatient Medical 15% to 50% 287,548  111,942  
Total $ 946,234  $ 583,423  
 Includes ownership of investments classified as liabilities and excludes ownership of in-substance real estate.
We own 34% of Sunrise Senior Living Management, Inc. ("Sunrise"), who provides comprehensive property management and
accounting services with respect to certain of our Seniors Housing Operating properties that Sunrise operates. We pay Sunrise
annual management fees pursuant to long-term management agreements. Our management agreements have initial terms expiring
through December 2035 plus, if applicable, optional renewal periods ranging from an additional 5 to 15 years depending on the
property. The management fees payable to Sunrise under the management agreements include a fee based on a percentage of
revenues generated by the applicable properties plus, if applicable, positive or negative adjustments based on specified performance
targets. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we recognized fees to Sunrise of $40,088,000, $41,200,000 and
$36,378,000, respectively, which are reflected within property operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of
Comprehensive Income. 
During the year ended December 31, 2019, we sold our interest in a Seniors Housing Operating joint venture and recognized a
gain of $38,681,000 in income (loss) from unconsolidated entities in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
At December 31, 2020, the aggregate unamortized basis difference of our joint venture investments of $116,504,000 is primarily
attributable to the difference between the amount for which we purchased our interest in the entity, including transaction costs, and
the historical carrying value of the net assets of the joint venture. This difference is being amortized over the remaining useful life
of the related properties and included in the reported amount of income from unconsolidated entities.
We have made loans totaling $333,934,000 related to eight properties as of December 31, 2020 for the development and
construction of certain properties which are classified as in substance real estate investments. We believe that such borrowers
typically represent variable interest entities (“VIE” or VIE’s”) in accordance with ASC 810 Consolidation. VIE’s are required to be
consolidated by their Primary Beneficiary (“PB”) which is the enterprise that has both: (i) the power to direct the activities of the
VIE that most significantly impacts the entity’s economic performance; and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses or the right to
receive benefits of the VIE that could be significant to the entity. We have concluded that we are not the PB of such(1)
(1)
(1)
(2)
(1) 
(2)
(1)
(1)
89
89
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
borrowers, therefore, the loan arrangements were assessed based on among other factors, the amount and timing of expected
residual profits, the estimated fair value of the collateral and the significance of the borrower’s equity in the project. Based on these
assessments the arrangements have been classified as in substance real estate investments. We expect to fund an additional
$120,004,000 related to these investments.
9. Credit Concentration
We use consolidated net operating income (“NOI”) as our credit concentration metric. See Note 18 for additional information and
reconciliation. The following table summarizes certain information about our credit concentration for the year ended December 31,
2020, excluding our share of NOI in unconsolidated entities (dollars in thousands):
Number of Total Percent of
Concentration by relationship: Properties NOI NOI
Sunrise Senior Living 165 $ 257,558  13%
ProMedica 215 212,593  11%
Revera 94 100,344  5%
Avery Healthcare 60 75,863  4%
Sagora Senior Living 31 67,399  3%
Remaining portfolio 928 1,294,387  64%
Totals 1,493  $ 2,008,144  100%
 Sunrise Senior Living and Revera are in our Seniors Housing Operating segment. ProMedica is in our Triple-net segment. Avery Healthcare and Sagora Senior
Living are in both the Triple-net and Seniors Housing Operating segments.
 NOI with our top five relationships comprised 37% of total NOI for the year ending December 31, 2019.
 Revera owns a controlling interest in Sunrise. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized $1,147,146,000 of revenue from properties managed by
Sunrise Senior Living.
10. Borrowings Under Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Program
At December 31, 2020, we had a primary unsecured credit facility with a consortium of 31 banks that includes a $3,000,000,000
unsecured revolving credit facility ($0 outstanding at December 31, 2020), a $500,000,000 unsecured term credit facility and a
$250,000,000 Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility. We have an option, through an accordion feature, to upsize the
unsecured revolving credit facility and the $500,000,000 unsecured term credit facility by up to an additional $1,000,000,000, in
the aggregate, and the $250,000,000 Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility by up to an additional $250,000,000. The
primary unsecured credit facility also allows us to borrow up to $1,000,000,000 in alternate currencies (none outstanding at
December 31, 2020). Borrowings under the unsecured revolving credit facility are subject to interest payable at the applicable
margin over LIBOR interest rate. The applicable margin is based on our debt ratings and was 0.825% at December 31, 2020. In
addition, we pay a facility fee quarterly to each bank based on the bank’s commitment amount. The facility fee depends on our debt
ratings and was 0.15% at December 31, 2020. The term credit facilities mature on July 19, 2023. The revolving credit facility is
scheduled to mature on July 19, 2022 and can be extended for two successive terms of six months each at our option.
In January 2019, we established an unsecured commercial paper program. Under the terms of the program, we may issue
unsecured commercial paper notes with maturities that vary, but do not exceed 397 days from the date of issue, up to a maximum
aggregate face or principal amount outstanding at any time of $1,000,000,000 (none outstanding at December 31, 2020.
The following information relates to aggregate borrowings under the unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper
program for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Balance outstanding at year end $ — $ 1,588,600  $ 1,147,000  
Maximum amount outstanding at any month end $ 2,100,000  $ 2,880,000  $ 2,148,000  
Average amount outstanding (total of daily principal balances
divided by days in period) $ 497,014  $ 1,376,813  $ 950,581  
Weighted-average interest rate (actual interest expense divided
by average borrowings outstanding) 2.09 % 2.84 % 3.07 %
 
11. Senior Unsecured Notes and Secured Debt
We may repurchase, redeem or refinance senior unsecured notes from time to time, taking advantage of favorable market
conditions when available. We may purchase senior notes for cash through open market purchases, privately negotiated
transactions, a tender offer or, in some cases, through the early redemption of such securities pursuant to their terms. The senior(1) (2)
(3)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
90
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
unsecured notes are redeemable at our option, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to the
sum of (i) the principal amount of the notes (or portion of such notes) being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon up
to the redemption date and (ii) any “make-whole” amount due under the terms of the notes in connection with early
redemptions. Redemptions and repurchases of debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements,
contractual restrictions, and other factors. At December 31, 2020, the annual principal payments due on these debt obligations were
as follows (in thousands):
Senior Unsecured Notes Secured Debt Totals
2021 $ — $ 451,038  $ 451,038  
2022 870,000  460,892  1,330,892  
2023 1,369,784  372,541  1,742,325  
2024 1,350,000  183,345  1,533,345  
2025 1,250,000  214,440  1,464,440  
Thereafter 6,669,749  695,817  7,365,566  
Totals $ 11,509,533  $ 2,378,073  $ 13,887,606  
 Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not include unamortized premiums/discounts, debt issuance costs, or other fair value adjustments as reflected on
the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 Annual interest rates range from 0.85% to 6.50%.
 Annual interest rates range from 0.09% to 12.00%. Carrying value of the properties securing the debt totaled $5,388,000,000 at December 31, 2020.
 Includes a $860,000,000 unsecured term credit facility. The loan matures on April 1, 2022 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.20% (1.35% at December 31,
2020).
 Includes a $250,000,000 Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility (approximately $196,032,000 based on the Canadian/U.S. Dollar exchange rate on
December 31, 2020). The loan matures on July 19, 2023 and bears interest at the Canadian Dealer Offered Rate plus 0.9% (1.37% at December 31, 2020).
 Includes a $500,000,000 unsecured term credit facility. The loan matures on July 19, 2023 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.9% (1.05% at December 31, 2020).
 Includes a $300,000,000 Canadian-denominated 2.95% senior unsecured notes due 2027 (approximately $235,239,000 based on the Canadian/U.S. Dollar
exchange rate on December 31, 2020).
 Includes a £550,000,000 4.80% senior unsecured notes due 2028 (approximately $751,410,000 based on the Pounds Sterling/U.S. Dollar exchange rate in effect
on December 31, 2020).
 Includes a £500,000,000 4.50% senior unsecured notes due 2034 (approximately $683,100,000 based on the Pounds Sterling/U.S. Dollar exchange rate in effect
on December 31, 2020).
The following is a summary of our senior unsecured note principal activity during the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
  Weighted A vg.  Weighted A vg.  Weighted A vg.
 Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 10,427,562  4.03% $ 9,699,984  4.48% $ 8,417,447  4.31%
Debt issued 1,600,000  1.89% 3,987,790  3.34% 2,850,000  4.57%
Debt extinguished (566,248 ) 3.26% (3,335,290 ) 4.39% (1,450,000 ) 3.46%
Foreign currency 48,219  4.35% 75,078  4.22% (117,463 ) 4.16%
Ending balance $ 11,509,533  3.67% $ 10,427,562  4.03% $ 9,699,984  4.48%
The following is a summary of our secured debt principal activity for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
  Weighted A vg.  Weighted A vg.  Weighted A vg.
 Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 2,993,342  3.63% $ 2,485,71 1 3.90% $ 2,618,408  3.76%
Debt issued 62,055  2.55% 343,696  3.11% 45,447  3.40%
Debt assumed — —% 385,145  4.34% 292,887  4.64%
Debt extinguished (632,288 ) 2.21% (230,108 ) 4.35% (306,553 ) 5.36%
Principal payments (62,707 ) 3.63% (54,325 ) 3.75% (56,288 ) 3.91%
Foreign currency 17,671  2.93% 63,223  3.28% (108,190 ) 3.33%
Ending balance $ 2,378,073  3.27% $ 2,993,342  3.63% $ 2,485,71 1 3.90%(1,2) (1,3)
(4)
(5,6)
(7,8,9)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
91
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Certain agreements require us to maintain
certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make
investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements.
12. Derivative Instruments
We are exposed to, among other risks, the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our non-U.S.
investments and interest rate risk related to our capital structure. Our risk management program is designed to manage the exposure
and volatility arising from these risks, and utilizes foreign currency forward contracts, cross currency swap contracts, interest rate
swaps, interest rate locks and debt issued in foreign currencies to offset a portion of these risks.
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Cash Flow Hedges
For instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is
deferred as a component of other comprehensive income (“OCI”) and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods,
during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness
or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings. 
Cash Flow Hedges of Interest Rate Risk
We enter into interest rate swaps in order to maintain a capital structure containing targeted amounts of fixed and floating-rate
debt and manage interest rate risk. Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable amounts from
a counterparty in exchange for our fixed-rate payments. These interest rate swap agreements are used to hedge the variable cash
flows associated with variable-rate debt.
Periodically, we enter into and designate interest rate locks to partially hedge the risk of changes in interest payments attributable
to increases in the benchmark interest rate during the period leading up to the probable issuance of fixed-rate debt. We designate
our interest rate locks as cash flow hedges. Gains and losses when we settle our interest rate locks are amortized into income over
the life of the related debt, except where a material amount is deemed to be ineffective, which would be immediately reclassified to
the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. Approximately $2,686,000 of losses, which are included in OCI, are
expected to be reclassified into earnings in the next 12 months.
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts and Cross Currency Swap Contracts Designated as Net Investment Hedges
We use foreign currency forward and cross currency forward swap contracts to hedge a portion of the net investment in foreign
subsidiaries against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. For instruments that are designated and qualify as net investment
hedges, the variability in the foreign currency to U.S. Dollar of the instrument is recorded as a cumulative translation adjustment
component of OCI. 
During the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 we settled certain net investment hedges necessitating cash
payments of $1,988,000 and generating cash proceeds of $6,716,000, and $70,897,000, respectively. The balance of the cumulative
translation adjustment will be reclassified to earnings if the hedged investment is sold or substantially liquidated.
Derivative Contracts Undesignated
We use foreign currency exchange contracts to manage existing exposures to foreign currency exchange risk. Gains and losses
resulting from the changes in fair value of these instruments are recorded in interest expense on the Consolidated Statements of
Comprehensive Income, and are substantially offset by net revaluation impacts on foreign currency denominated balance sheet
exposures. In addition, we have several interest rate cap contracts related to variable rate secured debt agreements. Gains and losses
resulting from the changes in fair values of these instruments are also recorded in interest expense.
The following presents the notional amount of derivatives and other financial instruments as of the dates indicated (in
thousands):
92
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Derivatives designated as net investment hedges:
Denominated in Canadian Dollars $ 625,000  $ 725,000  
Denominated in Pound Sterling £ 1,340,708  £ 1,340,708  
Financial instruments designated as net investment hedges:
Denominated in Canadian Dollars $ 250,000  $ 250,000  
Denominated in Pound Sterling £ 1,050,000  £ 1,050,000  
Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges:
Denominated in U.S. Dollars $ 450,000  $ 1,188,250  
Derivative instruments not designated:
Interest rate caps denominated in U.S. Dollars $ 26,137  $ 405,819  
Forward sales contracts denominated in Canadian Dollars $ 80,000  $ — 
Forward purchase contracts denominated in Pound Sterling £ — £ (125,000 )
Forward sales contracts denominated in Pound Sterling £ — £ 125,000  
 At December 31, 2020 the maximum maturity date was January 15, 2021.
The following presents the impact of derivative instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the
periods presented (in thousands):
  Year Ended
Description Location December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
Gain (loss) on derivative instruments designated as
hedges recognized in income
 Interest expense $ 22,698 $ 26,419 $ 12,271 
Gain (loss) on derivative instruments not designated as
hedges recognized in income Interest expense $ (5,982)$ (2,310)$ 5,233 
Gain (loss) on derivative and financial instruments
designated as hedges recognized in OCI
 OCI $ (134,369)$ (131,120)$ 211,390 
13. Commitments and Contingencies
At December 31, 2020, we had 9 outstanding letter of credit obligations totaling $19,476,000 and expiring between 2021 and
2024. At December 31, 2020, we had outstanding construction in progress of $487,742,000 and were committed to providing
additional funds of approximately $622,108,000 to complete construction. Additionally, at December 31, 2020, we had outstanding
investments classified as in substance real estate of $333,934,000 and were committed to provide additional funds of $120,004,000
(see Note 8 for additional information). Purchase obligations include $42,685,000 of contingent obligations to fund capital
improvements. Rents due from the operator are increased to reflect the additional investment in the property.
14. Stockholders’ Equity 
The following is a summary of our stockholders’ equity capital accounts as of the dates indicated:
December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Preferred Stock, $ 1.00 par value:
Authorized shares 50,000,000  50,000,000
Issued shares — — 
Outstanding shares — — 
Common Stock, $ 1.00 par value:
Authorized shares 700,000,000  700,000,000  
Issued shares 419,124,469  411,550,857  
Outstanding shares 417,400,602  410,256,615  
Preferred Stock
The following is a summary of our preferred stock activity during the periods presented:(1)
(1)
93
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
  Weighted A vg.  Weighted A vg.  Weighted A vg.
 Shares Dividend Rate Shares Dividend Rate Shares Dividend Rate
Beginning balance — —% 14,369,965  6.50% 14,370,060  6.50%
Shares converted — —% (14,369,965 ) 6.50% (95) 6.50%
Ending balance — —% — —% 14,369,965  6.50%
During the year ended December 31, 2019, we converted all of the outstanding Series I Preferred Stock. Each share was
converted into 0.8857 shares of common stock.
Common Stock
In February 2019, we entered into an amended and restated equity distribution agreement whereby we can offer and sell up to
$1,500,000,000 aggregate amount of our common stock ("Equity Shelf Program"). The Equity Shelf Program also allows us to
enter into forward sale agreements. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we physically settled all of our outstanding forward
sale agreements for cash proceeds of $576,196,000. As of December 31, 2020, we had $499,341,000 of remaining capacity under
the Equity Shelf Program.
On May 1, 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program whereby we may repurchase up to $1 billion of
common stock through December 31, 2021 (the "Repurchase Program"). Under this authorization, we are not required to purchase
shares but may choose to do so in the open market or through private transactions at times and amounts based on our evaluation of
market conditions and other factors. We expect to finance any share repurchases under the Repurchase Program using available
cash and may use proceeds from borrowings or debt offerings. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we repurchased 201,947
shares at an average price of $37.89 per share.
The following is a summary of our common stock activity during the periods indicated (dollars in thousands, except average
price amounts):
Shares Issued Average Price Gross Proceeds Net Proceeds
2018 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances 6,529,417  $ 65.55  $ 428,009  $ 423,075  
2018 Option exercises 56,960  42.66  2,430  2,430  
2018 Equity Shelf Program issuances 5,241,349  69.95  366,640  364,070  
2018 Preferred stock conversions 83 — — 
2018 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures 115,243  — — 
2018 T otals 11,943,052  $ 797,079  $ 789,575  
2019 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances 5,798,979  $ 77.18  $ 447,559  $ 443,929  
2019 Option exercises 10,736  51.32  551 551 
2019 Equity Shelf Program issuances 7,855,956  78.15  613,948  611,645  
2019 Preferred stock conversions 12,712,452  — — 
2019 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures 203,889  — — 
2019 T otals 26,582,012  $ 1,062,058  $ 1,056,125  
2020 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances 264,153 $ 72.33  $ 19,105  $ 19,105  
2020 Option exercises 251 47.81 12 12 
2020 Equity Shelf Program issuances 6,799,978 86.48 588,072  576,196  
2020 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures 281,552 — — 
2020 T otals 7,345,934  $ 607,189  $ 595,313  
Dividends 
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we declared a reduced cash dividend beginning with the quarter ended March 31,
2020. Please refer to Note 19 for information related to federal income tax of dividends. The following is a summary of our
dividend payments (in thousands, except per share amounts):
94
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
  Per Share Amount Per Share Amount Per Share Amount
Common Stock $ 2.7000  $ 1,120,187  $ 3.4800  $ 1,404,977  $ 3.4800  $ 1,300,141  
Series I Preferred Stock — — — — 3.2500  46,704  
Totals $ 1,120,187  $ 1,404,977  $ 1,346,845  
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
The following is a summary of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) for the periods presented (in thousands):
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Foreign currency translation $ (621,792 )$ (719,814 )
Derivative and financial instruments designated as hedges 473,288  607,657  
Total accumulated other comprehensive loss $ (148,504 )$ (112,157 )
15. Stock Incentive Plans
Our 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (“2016 Plan”) authorizes up to 10,000,000 shares of common stock to be issued at the
discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Our non-employee directors, officers and key employees are
eligible to participate in the 2016 Plan. The 2016 Plan allows for the issuance of, among other things, stock options, stock
appreciation rights, restricted stock, deferred stock units, performance units, and dividend equivalent rights. Vesting periods for
options, deferred stock units and restricted shares generally range from three to four years. Options expire ten years from the date
of grant.
Under our long-term incentive plan, certain restricted stock awards are market, performance and time-based. For market and
performance based awards, we will grant a target number of restricted stock units, with the ultimate award determined by the total
shareholder return and operating performance metrics, measured in each case over a measurement period of three years. These
awards vest after the end of the performance periods. The expected term represents the period from the grant date to the end of the
performance period. Compensation expense for these performance grants is measured based on the probability of achievement of
certain performance goals and is recognized over the performance period. For the portion of the grant for which the award is
determined by the operating performance metrics, the compensation cost is based on the grant date closing price and management’s
estimate of corporate achievement of the financial metrics. If the estimated number of performance based restricted stock to be
earned changes, an adjustment will be recorded to recognize the accumulated difference between the revised and previous
estimates. For the portion of the grant determined by the total shareholder return, management used a Monte Carlo model to assess
the fair value and compensation cost. Forfeitures are accounted for as they occur.
For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we recognized stock compensation expense (a component of general
and administrative expenses, property operating expenses, and other expenses) of $28,318,000, $25,047,000, and $27,646,000,
respectively.
Restricted Stock
The fair value of the restricted stock is equal to the market price of the company’s common stock on the date of grant and is
amortized over the vesting periods. As of December 31, 2020, there was $20,900,000 of total unrecognized compensation expense
related to unvested restricted stock that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of two years. The following
table summarizes information about non-vested restricted stock incentive awards as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020: 
 Restricted Stock
 Number of Shares (000's)Weighted-A verage
 Grant Date Fair V alue
Non-vested at December 31, 2019 1,106  $ 70.26  
Vested (580) 71.36  
Granted 274 88.24  
Forfeited or Expired (395) 83.01  
Non-vested at December 31, 2020 405 $ 69.35  
16. Earnings Per Share
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (in thousands, except per share data):
95
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Numerator for basic earnings per share - net income attributable
 to common stockholders $ 978,844  $ 1,232,432  $ 758,250  
Adjustment for net income (loss) attributable to OP units (6,146 ) 806 173
Numerator for diluted earnings per share $ 972,698  $ 1,233,238  $ 758,423  
Denominator for basic earnings per share - weighted average shares 415,451  401,845  373,620  
Effect of dilutive securities:
Employee stock options — — 9 
Non-vested restricted shares 519 835 512 
Redeemable OP units 1,396  1,112 1,096  
Employee stock purchase program 21 16 13 
Dilutive potential common shares 1,936  1,963  1,630  
Denominator for diluted earnings per share - adjusted weighted average shares 417,387  403,808  375,250  
Basic earnings per share $ 2.36 $ 3.07 $ 2.03 
Diluted earnings per share $ 2.33 $ 3.05 $ 2.02 
As of December 31, 2018, the Series I Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock were excluded from the calculations as
the effect of the conversions were anti-dilutive. As of December 31, 2019, forward sales agreements outstanding for the sale of
4,935,804 shares of common stock were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because such forward sales
were anti-dilutive for the period.
17. Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the
principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the
measurement date. A three-level valuation hierarchy exists for disclosures of fair value measurements based upon the transparency
of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date. A financial instrument's categorization within the
valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The three levels are
defined below:
• Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level 2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in
markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for
substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. 
• Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of
the assets or liabilities. 
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is
practicable to estimate that value: 
Mortgage Loans, Other Real Estate Loans and Non-real Estate Loans Receivable — The fair value of mortgage loans, other real
estate loans and non-real estate loans receivable is generally estimated by using Level 2 and Level 3 inputs such as discounting the
estimated future cash flows using the current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings
and for the same remaining maturities. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash — The carrying amount approximates fair value. 
Equity Securities — Equity securities are recorded at their fair value based on Level 1 publicly available trading prices. 
Borrowings Under Primary Unsecured Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Program — The carrying amount of the primary
unsecured credit facility and commercial paper program approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate
adjustable. 
Senior Unsecured Notes — The fair value of the senior unsecured notes payable was estimated based on Level 1 publicly available
trading prices. The carrying amount of the variable rate senior unsecured notes approximates fair value because they are interest
rate adjustable. 
96
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Secured Debt — The fair value of fixed rate secured debt is estimated using Level 2 inputs by discounting the estimated future cash
flows using the current rates at which similar loans would be made with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining
maturities. The carrying amount of variable rate secured debt approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate
adjustable. 
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts, Interest Rate Swaps and Cross Currency Swaps — Foreign currency forward contracts,
interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps are recorded in other assets or other liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value that is
derived from observable market data, including yield curves and foreign exchange rates (all of our derivatives are Level 2).
Redeemable OP Unitholder Interests — Our redeemable OP unitholder interests are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value
using Level 2 inputs unless the fair value is below the initial amount in which case the redeemable OP unitholder interests are
recorded at the initial amount adjusted for distributions to the unitholders and income or loss attributable to the unitholders. The fair
value is measured using the closing price of our common stock, as units may be redeemed at the election of the holder for cash or,
at our option, one share of our common stock per unit, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. 
The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our financial instruments are as follows as of the dates presented (in
thousands):
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
 Amount Value Amount Value
Financial assets:     
Mortgage loans receivable $ 293,752  $ 297,207  $ 145,686  $ 150,217  
Other real estate loans receivable 149,620  152,21 1 124,696  128,512  
Equity securities 4,636  4,636  15,685  15,685  
Cash and cash equivalents 1,545,046  1,545,046  284,917  284,917  
Restricted cash 475,997  475,997  100,849  100,849  
Non-real estate loans receivable 240,269  255,724  336,854  379,239  
Foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps
and cross currency swaps 4,668  4,668  18,554  18,554  
Financial liabilities:
Borrowings under unsecured credit facility and
commercial paper program $ — $ — $ 1,587,597  $ 1,587,597  
Senior unsecured notes 11,420,790  13,093,926  10,336,513  11,400,571  
Secured debt 2,377,930  2,451,782  2,990,962  3,041,893  
Foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps
and cross currency swaps 118,054  118,054  53,601  53,601  
Redeemable OP unitholder interests $ 116,240  $ 115,346  $ 121,440  $ 121,440  
Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 
The market approach is utilized to measure fair value for our financial assets and liabilities reported at fair value on a recurring
basis. The market approach uses prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or
comparable assets or liabilities. The following summarizes items measured at fair value on a recurring basis (in thousands):
 Fair V alue Measurements as of December 31, 2020
 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Equity securities $ 4,636  $ 4,636  $ — $ — 
Foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps and
cross currency swaps, net asset (liability) (113,386 ) — (113,386 ) — 
Totals $ (108,750 )$ 4,636  $ (113,386 )$ — 
 Please see Note 12 for additional information.
Items Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis 
In addition to items that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, we also have assets and liabilities on our balance sheet
that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis that are not included in the tables above. Assets, liabilities and
noncontrolling interests that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include those acquired or assumed. Asset(1)
(1)
97
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
impairments (if applicable, see Note 5 for impairments of real property and Note 7 for impairments of loans receivable) are also
measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. We have determined that the fair value measurements included in each of these
assets and liabilities rely primarily on company-specific inputs and our assumptions about the use of the assets and settlement of
liabilities, as observable inputs are not available. As such, we have determined that each of these fair value measurements generally
resides within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. We estimate the fair value of real estate and related intangibles using the income
approach and unobservable data such as net operating income, and estimated capitalization and discount rates. We also consider
local and national industry market data including comparable sales, and commonly engage an external real estate appraiser to assist
us in our estimation of fair value. We estimate the fair value of assets held for sale based on current sales price expectations or, in
the absence of such price expectations, Level 3 inputs described above. We estimate the fair value of loans receivable using
projected payoff valuations based on the expected future cash flows and/or the estimated fair value of collateral, net of sales costs,
if the repayment of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the collateral. We estimate the fair value of secured debt assumed
in asset acquisitions using current interest rates at which similar borrowings could be obtained on the transaction date. 
18. Segment Reporting
We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate. We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three
operating segments: Seniors Housing Operating, Triple-net and Outpatient Medical. Our Seniors Housing Operating properties
include seniors apartments, assisted living, independent living/continuing care retirement communities, independent supportive
living communities (Canada), care homes with and without nursing (U.K.) and combinations thereof that are generally owned
and/or operated through RIDEA structures (see Note 19). Our Triple-net properties include the property types described above as
well as long-term/post-acute care facilities. Under the Triple-net segment, we invest in seniors housing and health care real estate
through acquisition and financing of primarily single tenant properties. Properties acquired are primarily leased under triple-net
leases and we are not involved in the management of the property. Our Outpatient Medical properties are typically leased to
multiple tenants and generally require a certain level of property management by us.
We evaluate performance based upon consolidated NOI of each segment. We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant
reimbursements, less property operating expenses. We believe NOI provides investors relevant and useful information as it
measures the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI to make decisions
about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties.
Non-segment revenue consists mainly of other income. Non-segment assets consist of corporate assets including cash, deferred
loan expenses and corporate offices and equipment among others. Non-property specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to
individual segments in determining NOI.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies (see
Note 2). The results of operations for all acquisitions described in Note 3 are included in our consolidated results of operations from
the acquisition dates and are components of the appropriate segments. There are no intersegment sales or transfers.
Summary information for the reportable segments (which excludes unconsolidated entities) during the years ended December 31,
2020, 2019 and 2018 is as follows (in thousands):
98
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year Ended December 31, 2020:Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-netOutpatient
MedicalNon-segment /
Corporate Total
Resident fees and services $ 3,074,022  $ — $ — $ — $ 3,074,022  
Rental income — 733,776  709,584  — 1,443,360  
Interest income 618 62,625  5,913  — 69,156  
Other income 7,223  4,903  4,522  2,781  19,429  
Total revenues 3,081,863  801,304  720,019  2,781  4,605,967  
Property operating expenses 2,326,31 1 53,183  214,948  3,381  2,597,823  
Consolidated net operating income 755,552  748,121  505,071  (600) 2,008,144  
Depreciation and amortization 544,462  232,604  261,371  — 1,038,437  
Interest expense 54,901  9,477  17,579  432,431  514,388  
General and administrative expenses — — — 128,394  128,394  
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial
instruments, net — 11,049  — — 11,049  
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 12,659  — 1,046  33,344  47,049  
Provision for loan losses 671 90,563  3,202  — 94,436  
Impairment of assets 100,741  34,867  — — 135,608  
Other expenses 14,265  22,923  8,218  24,929  70,335  
Income (loss) from continuing operations
before income taxes and other items 27,853  346,638  213,655  (619,698 ) (31,552 )
Income tax (expense) benefit — — — (9,968 ) (9,968 )
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (33,857 ) 18,462  7,312  — (8,083 )
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 328,249  64,288  695,918  — 1,088,455  
Income (loss) from continuing operations 322,245  429,388  916,885  (629,666 ) 1,038,852  
Net income (loss) $ 322,245  $ 429,388  $ 916,885  $ (629,666 )$ 1,038,852  
Total assets $ 16,044,153  $ 8,547,482  $ 6,522,880  $ 1,369,127  $ 32,483,642  
99
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year Ended December 31, 2019:Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-netOutpatient
MedicalNon-segment /
Corporate Total
Resident fees and services $ 3,448,175  $ — $ — $ — $ 3,448,175  
Rental income — 903,798  684,602  — 1,588,400  
Interest income 36 62,599  1,195  — 63,830  
Other income 8,658  6,246  2,031  3,966  20,901  
Total revenues 3,456,869  972,643  687,828  3,966  5,121,306  
Property operating expenses 2,417,349  53,900  218,793  — 2,690,042  
Consolidated net operating income 1,039,520  918,743  469,035  3,966  2,431,264  
Depreciation and amortization 553,189  232,626  241,258  — 1,027,073  
Interest expense 67,983  12,892  13,41 1 461,273  555,559  
General and administrative expenses — — — 126,549  126,549  
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial
instruments, net — (4,399 ) — — (4,399 )
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 1,614  — — 82,541  84,155  
Provision for loan losses — 18,690  — — 18,690  
Impairment of assets 2,145  11,926  14,062  — 28,133  
Other expenses 26,348  13,771  1,788  10,705  52,612  
Income (loss) from continuing operations
before income taxes and other items 388,241  633,237  198,516  (677,102 ) 542,892  
Income tax (expense) benefit — — — (2,957 ) (2,957 )
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities 12,388  22,985  7,061  — 42,434  
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 528,747  218,322  972 — 748,041  
Income (loss) from continuing operations 929,376  874,544  206,549  (680,059 ) 1,330,410  
Net income (loss) $ 929,376  $ 874,544  $ 206,549  $ (680,059 )$ 1,330,410  
Total assets $ 15,784,898  $ 9,434,817  $ 7,991,521  $ 169,515  $ 33,380,751  
100
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year Ended December 31, 2018:Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-netOutpatient
MedicalNon-segment /
Corporate Total
Resident fees and services $ 3,234,852  $ — $ — $ — $ 3,234,852  
Rental income — 828,865  551,557  — 1,380,422  
Interest income 578 54,926  310 — 55,814  
Other income 5,024  17,173  4,939  2,275  29,41 1 
Total revenues 3,240,454  900,964  556,806  2,275  4,700,499  
Property operating expenses 2,255,432  915 176,670  — 2,433,017  
Consolidated net operating income 985,022  900,049  380,136  2,275  2,267,482  
Depreciation and amortization 529,449  235,480  185,530  — 950,459  
Interest expense 69,060  14,225  7,051  436,256  526,592  
General and administrative expenses — — — 126,383  126,383  
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial
instruments, net — (4,016 ) — — (4,016 )
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 110 (32) 11,928  4,091  16,097  
Impairment of assets 7,599  107,980  — — 115,579  
Other expenses 6,624  90,975  (1) 7,570  7,729  112,898  
Income (loss) from continuing operations
before income taxes and other items 372,180  455,437  168,057  (572,184 ) 423,490  
Income tax (expense) benefit — — — (8,674 ) (8,674 )
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (28,142 ) 21,938  5,563  — (641)
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net (2,245 ) 196,589  221,231  — 415,575  
Income (loss) from continuing operations 341,793  673,964  394,851  (580,858 ) 829,750  
Net income (loss) $ 341,793  $ 673,964  $ 394,851  $ (580,858 )$ 829,750  
Represents non-capitalizable transaction costs of $81,116,000 primarily related to a joint venture transaction with an existing seniors housing operator including
the conversion of properties from Triple-net to Seniors Housing Operating and termination/restructuring of preexisting relationships.
Our portfolio of properties and other investments are located in the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada. Revenues
and assets are attributed to the country in which the property is physically located. The following is a summary of geographic
information for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
Revenues: Amount % Amount % Amount %
United States $ 3,720,155  80.8 %$ 4,205,492  82.1 %$ 3,777,960  80.4 %
United Kingdom 451,399  9.8 % 452,698  8.8 % 452,956  9.6 %
Canada 434,413  9.4 % 463,1 16 9.1 % 469,583  10.0 %
Total $ 4,605,967  100.0  %$ 5,121,306  100.0  %$ 4,700,499  100.0  %
 As of   
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019   
Assets: Amount % Amount %   
United States $ 26,658,659  82.1 %$ 27,513,91 1 82.4 %  
United Kingdom 3,352,549  10.3 % 3,405,388  10.2 %  
Canada 2,472,434  7.6 % 2,461,452  7.4 %  
Total $ 32,483,642  100.0  %$ 33,380,751  100.0  %  
 The United States, United Kingdom and Canada represent 76%, 10% and 14%, respectively, of our resident fees and services revenue for the year ended
December 31, 2020.(1)
(1) 
(1)
(1)
101
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19. Income Taxes and Distributions 
We elected to be taxed as a REIT commencing with our first taxable year. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes,
at least 90% of taxable income (excluding 100% of net capital gains) must be distributed to stockholders. REITs that do not
distribute a certain amount of taxable income in the current year are also subject to a 4% federal excise tax. The main differences
between undistributed net income for federal income tax purposes and financial statement purposes are the recognition of straight-
line rent for reporting purposes, basis differences in acquisitions, recording of impairments, differing useful lives and depreciation
and amortization methods for real property and the provision for loan losses for reporting purposes versus bad debt expense for tax
purposes. 
Cash distributions paid to common stockholders, for federal income tax purposes, are as follows for the periods presented:
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Per share:
Ordinary dividend $ 1.6389  $ 2.6937  $ 2.1988  
Long-term capital gain/(loss) 1.061 1 0.7863  1.1153 
Return of capital — — 0.1659  
Totals $ 2.7000  $ 3.4800  $ 3.4800  
 For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, includes Section 199A dividends of $1.6389, $2.6937 and $2.1988 respectively.
 For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, includes Unrecaptured SEC. 1250 Gains of $0.3458, $0.2835 and $0.3822, respectively.
Our consolidated provision for income tax expense (benefit) is as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Current tax expense $ 11,358  $ 12,594  $ 15,850  
Deferred tax benefit (1,390 ) (9,637 ) (7,176 )
Income tax expense (benefit) $ 9,968  $ 2,957  $ 8,674  
REITs generally are not subject to U.S. federal income taxes on that portion of REIT taxable income or capital gain that is
distributed to stockholders. For the tax year ended December 31, 2020, as a result of ownership of investments in Canada and the
U.K., we were subject to foreign income taxes under the respective tax laws of these jurisdictions. 
The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily relates to state taxes, foreign taxes, and taxes
based on income generated by entities that are structured as TRSs. For the tax years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the
foreign tax provision/(benefit) amount included in the consolidated provision for income taxes was $5,777,000, ($3,892,000) and
$9,804,000, respectively.
A reconciliation of income taxes, which is computed by applying the federal corporate tax rate for the years ended December 31,
2020, 2019 and 2018, to the income tax expense/(benefit) is as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Tax at statutory rate on earnings from continuing operations before
unconsolidated entities, noncontrolling interests and income taxes $ 220,252  $ 280,005  $ 176,069  
Increase (decrease) in valuation allowance 85,881  3,465  28,309  
Tax at statutory rate on earnings not subject to federal income taxes (300,196 ) (311,224 ) (206,937 )
Foreign permanent depreciation 1,504  9,260  8,110 
Other dif ferences 2,527  21,451  3,123  
Totals $ 9,968  $ 2,957  $ 8,674  
 Excluding purchase price accounting.
Each TRS and foreign entity subject to income taxes is a tax paying component for purposes of classifying deferred tax assets
and liabilities. The tax effects of taxable and deductible temporary differences, as well as tax asset/(liability) attributes, are
summarized as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(1)
102
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Investments and property , primarily dif ferences in investment basis, depreciation
and amortization, the basis of land assets and the treatment of interests and
certain costs $ (24,085 )$ (13,064 )$ (2,533 )
Operating loss and interest deduction carryforwards 196,634  127,525  98,713  
Expense accruals and other 72,459  43,056  48,804  
Valuation allowances (244,938 ) (159,057 ) (155,592 )
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) $ 70 $ (1,540 )$ (10,608 )
On the basis of the evaluations performed as required by the codification, valuation allowances totaling $244,938,000 were
recorded on U.S. taxable REIT subsidiaries as well as entities in other jurisdictions to limit the deferred tax assets to the amount
that we believe is more likely than not realizable. However, the amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be
adjusted if (i) estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced or increased or (ii) objective negative
evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no longer present (and additional weight may be given to subjective evidence such as
our projections for growth). The valuation allowance rollforward is summarized as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Beginning balance $ 159,057  $ 155,592  $ 127,283  
Expense (benefit) 85,881  3,465  28,309  
Ending balance $ 244,938  $ 159,057  $ 155,592  
As a result of certain acquisitions, we are subject to corporate level taxes for any related asset dispositions that may occur during
the five-year period immediately after such assets were owned by a C corporation (“built-in gains tax”). The amount of income
potentially subject to this special corporate level tax is generally equal to the lesser of (i) the excess of the fair value of the asset
over its adjusted tax basis as of the date it became a REIT asset, or (ii) the actual amount of gain. Some but not all gains recognized
during this period of time could be offset by available net operating losses and capital loss carryforwards. During the year ended
December 31, 2017, we acquired certain additional assets with built-in gains as of the date of acquisition that could be subject to
the built-in gains tax if disposed of prior to the expiration of the applicable five-year period. We have not recorded a deferred tax
liability as a result of the potential built-in gains tax based on our intentions with respect to such properties and available tax
planning strategies.
Given the applicable statute of limitations, we generally are subject to audit by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the year
ended December 31, 2017 and subsequent years. The statute of limitations may vary in the states in which we own properties or
conduct business. We do not expect to be subject to audit by state taxing authorities for any year prior to the year ended December
31, 2016. We are also subject to audit by the Canada Revenue Agency and provincial authorities generally for periods subsequent
to May 2016 related to entities acquired or formed in connection with acquisitions, and by the U.K.’s HM Revenue & Customs for
periods subsequent to August 2014 related to entities acquired or formed in connection with acquisitions. 
At December 31, 2020, we had a net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforward related to the REIT of $351,254,000. Due to our
uncertainty regarding the realization of certain deferred tax assets, we have not recorded a deferred tax asset related to NOLs
generated by the REIT. These amounts can be used to offset future taxable income (and/or taxable income for prior years if an audit
determines that tax is owed), if any. The REIT will be entitled to utilize NOLs and tax credit carryforwards only to the extent that
REIT taxable income exceeds our deduction for dividends paid. The NOL carryforwards generated through December 31, 2018
will expire through 2038. Beginning with the tax years after December 31, 2017, the law eliminates the NOL carryback period for
REITs, replaces the 20-year NOL carryforward period with an indefinite carryforward period and, with respect to tax years
beginning after 2020, limits the use of NOLs to 80% of taxable income.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had an NOL carryforward related to Canadian entities of $262,345,000 and $195,791,000
respectively. These Canadian losses have a 20-year carryforward period. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had an NOL
carryforward related to U.K. entities of $207,085,000 and $209,776,000 respectively. These U.K. losses do not have a finite
carryforward period. 
The CARES Act, among its economic stimulus provisions, includes a number of tax provisions relating to refundable payroll tax
credits, deferment of employer side social security payments, net operating loss carrybacks, alternative minimum tax credit refunds,
modifications to the net interest deduction limitations and technical corrections to tax depreciation methods for qualified
improvement property. Certain of these provisions may impact the provision for taxes in our consolidated financial statements,
including in particular the provision allowing for the carryback of net operating losses which would be applicable to our TRSs. We
have made a reasonable estimate of the tax impact to us of the CARES Act in our consolidated financial
103
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
statements, and while we do not believe that there will be further material impacts to the consolidated financial statements related
to the CARES Act tax provisions, we will continue to evaluate the impact of the CARES Act and any guidance provided by the
U.S. Treasury and the IRS on our consolidated financial statements. It is possible our estimates could differ materially from the
actual tax impact to us of the CARES Act.
20. Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited) 
The following is a summary of our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in
thousands, except per share data). The sum of individual quarterly amounts may not agree to the annual amounts included in the
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income due to rounding.
 Year Ended December 31, 2020
 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter
Revenues $ 1,258,602 $ 1,188,475 $ 1,036,874 $ 1,122,016  
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 310,284 $ 179,246 $ 325,585 $ 163,729  
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders per share:
Basic $ 0.76 $ 0.43 $ 0.78 $ 0.39 
Diluted $ 0.75 $ 0.42 $ 0.77 $ 0.39 
 Year Ended December 31, 2019
 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter
Revenues $ 1,272,245  $ 1,320,106  $ 1,266,133  $ 1,262,822  
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 280,470  $ 137,762  $ 589,876  $ 224,324  
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders per share:
Basic $ 0.72 $ 0.34 $ 1.46 $ 0.55 
Diluted $ 0.71 $ 0.34 $ 1.45 $ 0.55 
 Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP unitholders.
21. Variable Interest Entities 
We have entered into joint ventures to own certain seniors housing and outpatient medical assets which are deemed to be
VIEs. We have concluded that we are the primary beneficiary of these VIEs based on a combination of operational control of the
joint venture and the rights to receive residual returns or the obligation to absorb losses arising from the joint ventures. Except for
capital contributions associated with the initial joint venture formations, the joint ventures have been and are expected to be funded
from the ongoing operations of the underlying properties. Accordingly, such joint ventures have been consolidated, and the table
below summarizes the balance sheets of consolidated VIEs in the aggregate (in thousands):
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Assets:
Net real estate investments $ 454,333  $ 960,093  
Cash and cash equivalents 15,547  27,522  
Receivables and other assets 11,171  14,586  
Total assets $ 481,051  $ 1,002,201  
Liabilities and equity:
Secured debt $ 165,671  $ 460,1 17 
Lease liabilities 1,325  1,326  
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 14,997  22,215  
Total equity 299,058  518,543  
Total liabilities and equity $ 481,051  $ 1,002,201  
 Note that assets of the consolidated VIEs can only be used to settle obligations relating to such VIEs. Liabilities of the consolidated VIEs represent claims against
the specific assets of the VIEs.(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
104
Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
Not applicable.
Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
An evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on
that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were
effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The Company’s internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020
based on the criteria established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) in
a report entitled Internal Control — Integrated Framework.
Based on this assessment, using the criteria above, management concluded that the Company’s system of internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2020.
The independent registered public accounting firm of Ernst & Young LLP, as auditors of the Company’s consolidated financial
statements, has issued an attestation report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
No change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended) occurred during the fourth quarter of the one-year period covered by this report that materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
105
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Welltower Inc. 
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on
criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company)
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on the COSO
criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)
(PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the related
consolidated statements of comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2020, and the related notes and financial statement schedules listed in the index at Item 15(a) and our report dated February 10,
2021 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
/s/  Ernst & Young LLP
 
Toledo, Ohio
February 10, 2021
106
Item 9B. Other Information
None.
PART III 
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Election of
Directors,” “Corporate Governance,” “Executive Officers,” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain
Beneficial Owners — Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) prior to April 30, 2021. 
We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our directors, officers and employees. The code is posted
on the Internet at www.welltower.com/investors/governance. Any amendment to, or waivers from, the code that relate to any
officer or director of the company will be promptly disclosed on the Internet at www.welltower.com. 
In addition, the Board has adopted charters for the Audit, Compensation and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees.
These charters are posted on the Internet at www.welltower.com/investors/governance. Please refer to “Item 7 – Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Executive Summary – Corporate Governance” in the
Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of corporate governance. 
The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is
included as an inactive textual reference only. 
Item 11. Executive Compensation 
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Executive
Compensation” and “Director Compensation” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to
April 30, 2021.
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Security
Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in our
definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to April 30, 2021.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Corporate
Governance — Independence and Meetings” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain Beneficial
Owners — Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the
Commission prior to April 30, 2021.
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the heading “Ratification of
the Appointment of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with
the Commission prior to April 30, 2021.
107
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
1. (i)     Our Consolidated Financial Statements are included in Part II, Item 8:  
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 69
Consolidated Balance Sheets – December 31, 2020 and 2019 71
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income — Years ended December 31, 2020, 2019
and 201872
Consolidated Statements of Equity — Years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 74
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows — Years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 75
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 76
(ii)    The following Financial Statement Schedules are included beginning on page 116
III – Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
IV – Mortgage Loans on Real Estate 
The financial statement schedule required by Item15(a) (Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts) is included in
Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
2.     Exhibits:
The exhibits listed below are either filed with this Form 10-K or incorporated by reference in accordance with Rule 12b-
32 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
108
2.1    Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 25, 2018, by and among the Company, Potomac Acquisition LLC, Quality
Care Properties, Inc. and certain subsidiaries of Quality Care Properties, Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 2.1 to
the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 26, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(a)  Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s
Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(b)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
3.1(c)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed June 13, 2003 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
3.1(d)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.9 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 9, 2007 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
3.1(e)   Certificate of Change of Location of Registered Office and of Registered Agent of the Company (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 6, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).
3.1(f)     Certificate of Designation of 6.50% Series I Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock of the Company (filed with
the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 7, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).
3.1(g)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 10, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
3.1(h)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 6, 2014 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
3.1(i)      Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 30, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).
3.2     Seventh Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed May 6, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(a)    Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 15, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(b)     Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of March 15, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 15, 2010 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(c)    Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of June 18, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
June 18, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(d)    Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of April 7, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 7, 2010 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(e)     Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of June 8, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
June 8, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
109
4.1(f)    Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of September 10, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 13, 2010
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(g)   Supplemental Indenture No. 4, dated as of November 16, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 16, 2010
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(h)     Supplemental Indenture No. 5, dated as of March 14, 2011, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 14, 2011 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(i)     Supplemental Indenture No. 6, dated as of April 3, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 4, 2012 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(j)    Supplemental Indenture No. 7, dated as of December 6, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed December 11, 2012
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(k)     Supplemental Indenture No. 8, dated as of October 7, 2013, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed October 9, 2013 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).  
4.1(l)     Supplemental Indenture No. 9, dated as of November 20, 2013, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 20, 2013
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(m)   Supplemental Indenture No. 10, dated as of November 25, 2014, between the Company and The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 25,
2014 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(n)     Supplemental Indenture No. 11, dated as of May 26, 2015, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 27, 2015 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(o)    Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 11, dated as of October 19, 2015, between the Company and The Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
October 20, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(p)     Supplemental Indenture No. 12, dated as of March 1, 2016, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 3, 2016 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(q)    Supplemental Indenture No. 13, dated as of April 10, 2018, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 10, 2018 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(r)    Supplemental Indenture No. 14, dated as of August 16, 2018, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed August 16, 2018 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(s)    Supplemental Indenture No. 15, dated as of February 15, 2019 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed February 15, 2019 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(t)     Supplemental Indenture No. 16, dated as of August 19, 2019, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Form 8-K filed August 19, 2019 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(u)     Supplemental Indenture No. 17, dated as of December 16, 2019, between the Company and The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed December 16,
2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
110
4.1(v)    Supplemental Indenture No. 18, dated as of June 30, 2020, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed June 30, 2020 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.2    Form of Indenture for Senior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form
S-3 (File No. 333-2250004) filed May 17, 2018, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.3    Form of Indenture for Junior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form
S-3 (File No. 333-2250004) filed May 17, 2018, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.4(a)      Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2015, by and among HCN Canadian Holdings-1 LP, the Company and BNY Trust
Company of Canada (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.5(a) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 18, 2016
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.4(b)   First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2015, by and among HCN Canadian Holdings-1 LP, the Company
and BNY Trust Company of Canada (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.5(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed
February 18, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.4(c)    Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 20, 2019, by and among HCN Canadian Holdings-1 LP, the
Company and BNY Trust Company of Canada (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.4(c) to the Company's Form 10-K
filed February 14, 2020 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.5    Description of Securities of the Registrant (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.5 to the Company's Form 10-K filed
February 14, 2020 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
10.1(a)    Credit Agreement dated as of July 19, 2018 by and among the Company; the lenders listed therein; KeyBank National
Association, as administrative agent, L/C issuer and a swingline lender; Bank of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A., as co-syndication agents; Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as documentation agent; Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities
Inc., as U.S. joint lead arrangers; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and RBC Capital Markets, as Canadian joint lead arrangers; and Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as joint book runners (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed July 24, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
10.1(b)    First Amendment, dated April 26, 2019, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of July 19, 2018, by and among the Company;
the lenders listed therein; KeyBank National Association, as administrative agent, L/C issuer and a swingline lender; Bank
of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as co-syndication agents; Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as
documentation agent; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc Capital
Markets Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as U.S. joint lead arrangers; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and RBC Capital Markets, as Canadian joint
lead arrangers; and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as joint book
runners (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed April 30, 2019 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
10.2(a) Amended and Restated Health Care REIT, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Appendix A
to the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed March 25, 2009 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.2(b)  Form of Stock Option Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive Officers under the 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.2(c)  Form of Stock Option Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive Officers under the Amended and
Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed
May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.2(d)  Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for the Chief Executive Officer under the Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
111
10.2(e)  Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for Executive Officers under the Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive
Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.3(a)   Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated January 3, 2017, between the Company and Thomas J. DeRosa
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4(a) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 22, 2017 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.3(b)   Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Grant Agreement, dated effective as of July 30, 2014, between the Company
and Thomas J. DeRosa (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 4, 2014
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.3(c) Settlement Agreement by and between Thomas J. DeRosa and Welltower Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to
the Company’s Form 10-Q filed October 29, 2020 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.4     Settlement Agreement, dated September 4, 2019, by and between John A. Goodey and the Company (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 10-Q filed October 30, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*
10.5     Resignation Agreement, dated July 1, 2019, by and between Mercedes T. Kerr and the Company (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 10-Q filed August 1, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*
10.6     Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each director, executive officer and officer of the Company
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed February 18, 2005 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.7    Summary of Director Compensation (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Form 10-Q filed August
1, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated by reference thereto).*
10.8(a)     Welltower Inc. 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K
filed May 10, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.8(b)    Form of Restricted Stock Grant Notice for Executive Officers under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.14(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.8(c)    Form of Restricted Stock Grant Notice for Senior Vice Presidents under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with
the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(c) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.8(d)    Form of Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(d) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.9(a) Welltower Inc. 2016-2018 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s
Form 10-Q filed August 2, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.9(b)     Form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2016-2018 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 10.15(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.10(a) Welltower Inc. 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s
Form 10-Q filed May 5, 2017 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.10(b) Form of Award Notice under the 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.16(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*
10.10(c) Welltower Inc. 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive Program – Bridge 1 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the
Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 7, 2017 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
112
10.10(d) Form of Award Notice under the 2017-2019 Long Term Incentive Program - Bridge 1 (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.16(d) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*
10.10(e) Welltower Inc. 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive Program – Bridge 2 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the
Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 7, 2017 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.10(f)     Form of Award Notice under the 2017-2019 Long Term Incentive Program - Bridge 2 (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.16(f) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*
10.11(a) Welltower Inc. 2018-2020 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.17(a) to the
Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.11(b) Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2018-2020 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.17(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.12(a) Welltower Inc. 2019-2021 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(a) to the
Company's Form 10-K filed February 25, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.12(b) Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2019-2021 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.14(b) to the Company's Form 10-K filed February 25, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.13     2019 Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Form 10-
Q filed October 30, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.14(a)    Welltower Inc. 2020-2022 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(a) to the
Company's Form 10-K filed February 14, 2020 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.14(b) Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2020-2022 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.14(b) to the Company's Form 10-K filed February 14, 2020 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
21           Subsidiaries of the Company.
23           Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm.
24           Powers of Attorney.
31.1        Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.
31.2        Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer.
32.1        Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Executive Officer.
32.2        Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Financial Officer.
101.INS   Inline XBRL Instance Document. The instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL
tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.
101.SCH   Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
101.CAL   Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
101.LAB   Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document
101.PRE    Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
101.DEF    Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
104    The cover page from the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, formatted in Inline
XBRL (included in Exhibit 101)
                  
113
*  Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary
None.
114
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
Date:  February 10, 2021
WELLTOWER INC. 
By: /s/  Shankh Mitra                                             
Shankh Mitra,
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Investment Officer and Director
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on February 10, 2021 by
the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated. 
/s/  Kenneth J. Bacon ** /s/  Johnese M. Spisso **
Kenneth J. Bacon, Chairman and Director Johnese M. Spisso, Director
  
/s/  Karen B. DeSalvo ** /s/  Kathryn M. Sullivan **
Karen B. DeSalvo, Director Kathryn M. Sullivan, Director
  
/s/  Jeffrey H. Donahue ** /s/  Shankh Mitra **
Jeffrey H. Donahue, DirectorShankh Mitra, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Investment
Officer and Director
 (Principal Executive Officer)
/s/  Philip L. Hawkins ** /s/  Timothy G. McHugh **
Philip L. Hawkins, Director Timothy G. McHugh, Executive Vice President - Chief
            Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)
/s/  Sharon M. Oster ** /s/  Joshua T. Fieweger**
Sharon M. Oster, Director Joshua T. Fieweger, Chief Accounting Officer
 (Principal Accounting Officer)
/s/  Diana W. Reid **
Diana W. Reid, Director
/s/  Sergio D. Rivera ** **By:     /s/  Shankh Mitra          
Sergio D. Rivera, Director                           Shankh Mitra, Attorney-in-Fact
115
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2020  
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:           
Adderbury , UK $ — $ 2,144  $ 12,549  $ 1,178  $ 2,296  $ 13,575  $ 1,478  2015 2017 Banbury Road
Albertville, AL — 170 6,203  1,079  176 7,276  2,233  2010 1999 151 W oodham Dr .
Alexandria, V A — 8,280  50,914  411 8,280  51,325  3,881  2016 2018 5550 Cardinal Place
Altrincham, UK — 4,244  25,187  4,252  4,700  28,983  7,942  2012 2009 295 Hale Road
Amherst, NY — 1,136  10,522  806 1,136  11,328  1,371  2019 2013 1880 Sweet Home Road
Amherstview , ON — 473 4,446  804 527 5,196  1,213  2015 1974 4567 Bath Road
Anderson, SC — 710 6,290  1,159  710 7,449  4,147  2003 1986 311 Simpson Rd.
Ankeny , IA — 1,129  10,270  116 1,146  10,369  1,241  2016 2012 1275 SW State Street
Apple V alley , CA — 480 16,639  1,893  486 18,526  5,658  2010 1999 11825 Apple V alley Rd.
Arlington, TX — 1,660  37,395  3,860  1,660  41,255  12,160  2012 2000 1250 W est Pioneer Parkway
Arlington, V A — 8,385  31,198  15,809  8,393  46,999  18,499  2017 1992 900 N T aylor Street
Arlington, V A — — 2,338  1,742  76 4,004  550 2018 1992 900 N T aylor Street
Arnprior , ON — 788 6,283  1,098  863 7,306  2,015  2013 1991 15 Arthur Street
Atlanta, GA — 2,058  14,914  3,825  2,080  18,717  12,682  1997 1999 1460 S Johnson Ferry Rd.
Atlanta, GA — 2,100  20,603  1,872  2,206  22,369  5,546  2014 2000 1000 Lenox Park Blvd NE
Austin, TX — 880 9,520  2,717  885 12,232  6,580  1999 1998 12429 Scofield Farms Dr .
Austin, TX — 1,560  21,413  853 1,574  22,252  4,204  2014 2013 11330 Farrah Lane
Austin, TX — 4,200  74,850  1,744  4,200  76,594  12,324  2015 2014 4310 Bee Caves Road
Bagshot, UK — 4,960  29,881  8,525  5,499  37,867  10,118 2012 2009 14 - 16 London Road
Ballston Spa, NY — 5,532  17,823  173 5,532  17,996  62 2020 2019 2000 Carlton Hollow W ay
Banstead, UK — 6,695  55,113 13,868  7,468  68,208  17,976  2012 2005 Croydon Lane
Basingstoke, UK — 3,420  18,853  2,820  3,787  21,306  3,945  2014 2012 Grove Road
Basking Ridge, NJ — 2,356  37,710  1,776  2,395  39,447  10,183  2013 2002 404 King Geor ge Road
Bassett, UK — 4,874  32,304  10,899  5,411 42,666  12,448  2013 2006 111 Bur gess Road
Bath, UK — 2,696  11,876  1,321  2,888  13,005  1,413  2015 2017 Clarks W ay, Rush Hill
Baton Rouge, LA 12,930  790 29,436  1,366  886 30,706  7,788  2013 2009 9351 Siegen Lane
Beaconsfield, UK — 5,566  50,952  6,670  6,175  57,013  14,248  2013 2009 30-34 Station Road
Beaconsfield, QC — 1,149  17,484  2,113 1,310  19,436  6,210  2013 2008 505 Elm A venue
Beavercreek, OH — 981 11,187  — 981 11,187  345 2019 2020 2475 Lillian Lane
Bee Cave, TX — 1,820  21,084  727 1,832  21,799  3,286  2016 2014 14058 A Bee Cave Parkway
Bellevue, W A — 2,800  19,004  2,734  2,816  21,722  6,821  2013 1998 15928 NE 8th Street
Bellingham, W A — 1,500  19,861  1,920  1,507  21,774  6,629  2010 1996 4415 Columbine Dr .
Bellingham, W A — — — 18,529  1,290  17,239  6 2020 1999 848 W Orchard Dr
Belmont, CA — — 35,300  2,576  178 37,698  10,196  2013 2002 1010 Alameda de Las Pulgas
Bethel Park, P A — 1,626  12,947  — 1,626  12,947  775 2019 2019 631 McMurray Road
Bethesda, MD — — 45,309  1,395  3 46,701  11,970  2013 2009 8300 Burdett Road
Bethesda, MD — — — 69,551  3,513  66,038  3,225  2016 2018 4925 Battery Lane(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:           
Bethesda, MD — — 45 893 — 938 351 2013 2009 8300 Burdett Road
Bethesda, MD — — 212 926 — 1,138  642 2013 2009 8300 Burdett Road
Birmingham, UK — 4 19,646  148 152 19,646  5,292  2013 2006 5 Church Road, Edgbaston
Birmingham, UK — 1,480  13,014  1,799  1,639  14,654  1,668  2015 2016 47 Bristol Road South
Birmingham, UK — 2,807  11,313  2,156  3,108  13,168  1,466  2015 2016 134 Jockey Road
Blainville, QC — 2,077  8,902  1,648  2,340  10,287  3,589  2013 2008 50 des Chateaux Boulevard
Bloomfield Hills, MI — 2,000  35,662  1,437  2,133  36,966  9,457  2013 2009 6790 T elegraph Road
Boca Raton, FL 32,270  6,565  111,247  26,328  6,991  137,149  28,424  2018 1994 6343 V ia De Sonrise Del Sur
Boise, ID — 2,220  18,881  1,830  2,220  20,71 1 2,419  2019 1999 10250 W Smoke Ranch Drive
Borehamwood, UK — 5,367  41,937  6,100  5,983  47,421  12,648  2012 2003 Edgwarebury Lane
Bothell, W A — 1,350  13,439  6,986  1,827  19,948  4,434  2015 1988 10605 NE 185th Street
Boulder , CO — 2,994  27,458  2,490  3,064  29,878  9,331  2013 2003 3955 28th Street
Bournemouth, UK — 5,527  42,547  6,334  6,143  48,265  12,456  2013 2008 42 Belle V ue Road
Braintree, MA — — 41,290  1,282  100 42,472  11,224  2013 2007 618 Granite Street
Brampton, ON 40,728  10,196  59,989  5,359  10,906  64,638  14,535  2015 2009 100 Ken Whillans Drive
Brandon, MS — 1,220  10,241  867 1,220  11,108  2,945  2010 1999 140 Castlewoods Blvd
Bremerton, W A — — — 26,732  2,417  24,315  7 2020 1999 966 Oyster Bay Ct
Brentwood, UK — 8,537  45,869  6,786  9,454  51,738  5,881  2016 2013 London Road
Brick, NJ — 1,170  17,372  1,797  1,213  19,126  5,383  2010 1998 515 Jack Martin Blvd
Brick, NJ — 690 17,125  5,933  695 23,053  5,412  2010 1999 1594 Route 88
Bridgewater , NJ — 1,730  48,201  2,992  1,774  51,149  13,166  2010 1999 2005 Route 22 W est
Brockport, NY — 1,500  23,355  142 1,642  23,355  4,552  2015 1999 90 W est A venue
Brockville, ON 4,301  484 7,445  1,110 533 8,506  1,754  2015 1996 1026 Bridlewood Drive
Brookfield, WI — 1,300  12,830  227 1,300  13,057  2,511 2012 2013 1105 Davidson Road
Broomfield, CO — 4,140  44,547  14,643  10,140  53,190  20,993  2013 2009 400 Summit Blvd
Brossard, QC 10,233  5,499  31,854  3,463  5,813  35,003  8,694  2015 1989 2455 Boulevard Rome
Buckingham, UK — 2,979  13,880  2,521  3,327  16,053  3,035  2014 1883 Church Street
Buffalo Grove, IL — 2,850  49,129  4,325  2,850  53,454  13,701  2012 2003 500 McHenry Road
Burbank, CA — 4,940  43,466  4,846  4,940  48,312  13,352  2012 2002 455 E. Angeleno A venue
Burbank, CA 18,476  3,610  50,817  4,315  3,610  55,132  8,536  2016 1985 2721 W illow Street
Burke, V A — — — 52,550  2,575  49,975  2,496  2016 2018 9617 Burke Lake Road
Burleson, TX — 3,150  10,437  702 3,150  11,139  1,986  2012 2014 621 Old Highway 1 187
Burlingame, CA — — 62,786  141 — 62,927  8,886  2016 2015 1818 T rousdale A venue
Burlington, ON 17,594  1,309  19,31 1 2,676  1,433  21,863  5,769  2013 1990 500 Appleby Line
Burlington, MA — 2,443  34,354  1,671  2,578  35,890  9,969  2013 2005 24 Mall Road
Burlington, W A — 877 15,030  915 877 15,945  1,833  2019 1999 410 S Norris St
Burlington, W A — 768 7,622  568 768 8,190  1,090  2019 1996 112 / 210 North Skagit Street
Bushey , UK — 12,690  36,482  3,763  13,594  39,341  2,890  2015 2018 Elton House, Elton W ay
Calgary , AB 10,958  2,252  37,415  4,441  2,481  41,627  11,250  2013 2003 20 Promenade W ay SE
Calgary , AB 12,398  2,793  41,179  4,674  3,049  45,597  12,073  2013 1998 80 Edenwold Drive NW
Calgary , AB 9,876  3,122  38,971  4,837  3,452  43,478  11,351  2013 1998 150 Scotia Landing NW
Calgary , AB 21,132  3,431  28,983  4,317  3,718  33,013  7,963  2013 1989 9229 16th Street SW
Calgary , AB 24,841  2,385  36,776  5,754  2,595  42,320  8,175  2015 2006 2220-162nd A venue SW(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:           
Camberley , UK — 2,654  5,736  20,037  5,947  22,480  2,847  2014 2016 Fernhill Road
Camberley , UK — 9,974  39,168  3,791  10,684  42,249  4,098  2016 2017 Pembroke Broadway
Camillus, NY — 2,071  11,149  766 2,071  11,915  1,442  2019 2016 3877 Milton A venue
Cardif f, UK — 3,191  12,566  3,576  3,559  15,774  4,779  2013 2007 127 Cyncoed Road
Cardif f by the Sea, CA 35,133  5,880  64,71 1 5,313  5,880  70,024  20,409  2011 2009 3535 Manchester A venue
Carmichael, CA 24,155  2,440  41,959  1,935  2,440  43,894  2,893  2019 2014 4717 Engle Road
Carol Stream, IL — 1,730  55,048  4,076  1,730  59,124  16,036  2012 2001 545 Belmont Lane
Carrollton, TX — 4,280  31,444  1,513  4,280  32,957  6,058  2013 2010 2105 North Josey Lane
Cary , NC — 740 45,240  986 742 46,224  10,734  2013 2009 1206 W est Chatham Street
Cary , NC — 6,112 70,008  10,053  6,155  80,018  13,977  2018 1999 300 Kildaire W oods Drive
Cedar Hill, TX — — — 26,503  1,958  24,545  127 2020 2020 1240 East Pleasant Run
Cedar Park, TX — 1,750  15,664  775 1,750  16,439  1,929  2016 2015 800 C-Bar Ranch T rail
Cerritos, CA — — 27,494  7,051  — 34,545  8,444  2016 2002 11000 New Falcon W ay
Charlottesville, V A — 4,651  91,468  17,155  4,651  108,623  18,492  2018 1991 2610 Barracks Road
Chatham, ON 382 1,098  12,462  4,231  1,272  16,519  4,229  2015 1965 25 Keil Drive North
Chelmsford, MA — 1,040  10,951  4,744  1,123  15,612  5,392  2003 1997 4 Technology Dr .
Chertsey , UK — 9,566  25,886  3,241  10,247  28,446  2,645  2015 2018 Bittams Lane
Chesterfield, MO — 1,857  48,366  1,684  1,917  49,990  12,277  2013 2001 1880 Clarkson Road
Chesterton, IN — 2,980  37,496  1,246  2,980  38,742  216 2020 2019 700 Dickinson Rd
Chorleywood, UK — 5,636  43,191  8,343  6,268  50,902  14,586  2013 2007 High V iew, Rickmansworth Road
Chula V ista, CA — 2,072  22,163  1,506  2,186  23,555  6,264  2013 2003 3302 Bonita Road
Church Crookham,
UK — 2,591  14,215  2,512  2,890  16,428  3,855  2014 2014 2 Bourley Road
Cincinnati, OH — 1,750  11,287  79 1,750  11,366  723 2019 2019 732 Clough Pike Road
Citrus Heights, CA — 2,300  31,876  2,353  2,300  34,229  10,753  2010 1997 7418 Stock Ranch Rd.
Claremont, CA — 2,430  9,928  2,019  2,515  11,862  3,635  2013 2001 2053 North T owne A venue
Clay, NY — 1,316  10,734  734 1,316  11,468  1,357  2019 2014 8547 Mor gan Road
Cleburne, TX — 520 5,369  7 520 5,376  1,960  2006 2007 402 S Colonial Drive
Cohasset, MA — 2,485  26,147  2,174  2,500  28,306  7,753  2013 1998 125 King Street (Rt 3A)
Colleyville, TX — 1,050  17,082  53 1,050  17,135  1,848  2016 2013 8100 Precinct Line Road
Colorado Springs, CO — 800 14,756  2,060  1,034  16,582  4,791  2013 2001 2105 University Park Boulevard
Colts Neck, NJ — 780 14,733  3,216  1,269  17,460  4,808  2010 2002 3 Meridian Circle
Columbus, IN — 610 3,190  — 610 3,190  940 2010 1998 2564 Foxpointe Dr .
Conroe, TX — 980 7,771  27 980 7,798  2,423  2009 2010 903 Longmire Road
Coos Bay , OR — — — 9,416  864 8,552  5 2020 1996 192 Norman A ve.
Coos Bay , OR — — — 12,151  1,792  10,359  6 2020 2006 1855 Ocean Blvd SE
Coquitlam, BC 8,721  3,047  24,567  3,352  3,344  27,622  8,403  2013 1990 1142 Duf ferin Street
Crystal Lake, IL — 875 12,461  1,678  971 14,043  4,359  2013 2001 751 E T erra Cotta A venue
Dallas, TX — 6,330  114,794  2,606  6,330  117,400  20,125  2015 2013 3535 N Hall Street
Decatur , GA — — — 31,336  1,946  29,390  8,285  2013 1998 920 Clairemont A venue
Denver , CO — 1,450  19,389  4,606  1,450  23,995  5,701  2012 1997 4901 South Monaco Street
Denver , CO — 2,910  35,838  6,259  2,910  42,097  11,184  2012 2007 8101 E Mississippi A venue
Denver , CO — 5,402  105,307  8,008  5,402  113,315  10,003  2019 2014 1500 Little Raven St
Denver , CO — — — 24,301  1,989  22,312  153 2020 2017 2979 Uinta Street(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:           
Dix Hills, NY — 3,808  39,014  2,279  3,959  41,142  10,964  2013 2003 337 Deer Park Road
Dollard-Des-Ormeaux,
QC — 1,957  14,431  1,878  2,185  16,081  5,908  2013 2008 4377 St. Jean Blvd
Dresher , PA 8,380  1,900  10,664  1,361  1,914  12,01 1 4,397  2013 2006 1650 Susquehanna Road
Dublin, OH — 1,169  25,345  157 1,169  25,502  3,903  2016 2015 4175 Stoneridge Lane
East Amherst, NY — 1,626  10,765  863 1,626  11,628  1,501  2019 2015 8040 Roll Road
East Meadow , NY — 69 45,991  2,003  127 47,936  12,498  2013 2002 1555 Glen Curtiss Boulevard
East Setauket, NY — 4,920  37,354  2,102  4,986  39,390  10,360  2013 2002 1 Sunrise Drive
Eastbourne, UK — 4,145  33,744  4,798  4,604  38,083  10,244  2013 2008 6 Upper Kings Drive
Edgbaston, UK — 2,720  13,969  2,142  3,012  15,819  1,792  2014 2015 Speedwell Road
Edgewater , NJ — 4,561  25,047  1,896  4,564  26,940  7,439  2013 2000 351 River Road
Edison, NJ — 1,892  32,314  3,634  1,943  35,897  11,562  2013 1996 1801 Oak T ree Road
Edmonds, W A — 1,650  24,449  9,428  1,765  33,762  5,802  2015 1976 21500 72nd A venue W est
Edmonds, W A — — — 30,883  2,891  27,992  6 2020 2000 180 2nd A ve S
Edmonton, AB 7,871  1,589  29,819  4,079  1,782  33,705  9,321  2013 1999 103 Rabbit Hill Court NW
Edmonton, AB 10,332  2,063  37,293  4,931  2,257  42,030  13,320  2013 1968 10015 103rd A venue NW
El Dorado Hills, CA — 5,190  52,112 156 5,190  52,268  1,762  2017 2019 2020 T own Center W est W ay
Encino, CA — 5,040  46,255  5,986  5,040  52,241  13,879  2012 2003 15451 V entura Boulevard
Englishtown, NJ — 690 12,520  2,335  860 14,685  4,353  2010 1997 49 Lasatta A ve
Epsom, UK — 20,159  34,803  6,798  22,324  39,436  4,528  2016 2014 450-458 Reigate Road
Erie, P A — 1,455  8,324  792 1,455  9,116 1,292  2019 2013 4400 East Lake Road
Esher , UK — 5,783  48,361  10,235  6,427  57,952  14,454  2013 2006 42 Copsem Lane
Everett, W A — — — 9,923  638 9,285  4 2020 1998 524 75th St SE
Fairfield, NJ — 3,120  43,868  2,447  3,255  46,180  12,090  2013 1998 47 Greenbrook Road
Fairfield, CA — 1,460  14,040  5,375  1,460  19,415  7,797  2002 1998 3350 Cherry Hills St.
Fairfield, OH — 1,416  12,627  294 1,416  12,921  991 2019 2018 520 Patterson Boulevard
Fareham, UK — 3,408  17,970  2,900  3,800  20,478  4,373  2014 2012 Redlands Lane
Florence, AL — 353 13,049  1,243  385 14,260  4,370  2010 1999 3275 County Road 47
Flossmoor , IL — 1,292  9,496  2,112 1,339  11,561  3,959  2013 2000 19715 Governors Highway
Folsom, CA — 1,490  32,754  101 1,490  32,855  6,212  2015 2014 1574 Creekside Drive
Fort W ayne, IN — — — 46,548  3,637  42,91 1 183 2020 2018 3715 Union Chapel Rd
Fort W orth, TX — 7,131  52,680  2,365  7,131  55,045  5,260  2019 2017 3401 Amador Drive
Fort W orth, TX — — — 21,446  2,538  18,908  529 2020 2020 3401 Amador Drive
Fort W orth, TX — 2,080  27,888  5,314  2,080  33,202  9,741  2012 2001 2151 Green Oaks Road
Fort W orth, TX — 1,740  19,799  766 1,740  20,565  3,011 2016 2014 7001 Bryant Irvin Road
Fremont, CA — 3,400  25,300  6,190  3,456  31,434  11,995  2005 1987 2860 Country Dr .
Fresno, CA 23,376  2,459  33,023  1,755  2,459  34,778  2,543  2019 2014 5605 North Gates A venue
Frome, UK — 2,720  14,813  2,569  3,012  17,090  3,321  2014 2012 Welshmill Lane
Fullerton, CA — 1,964  19,989  1,277  1,998  21,232  5,885  2013 2008 2226 North Euclid Street
Gahanna, OH — 772 11,214  1,920  787 13,119 3,672  2013 1998 775 East Johnstown Road
Gardnerville, NV — 1,143  10,831  2,203  1,164  13,013  9,346  1998 1999 1565-A V irginia Ranch Rd.
Gig Harbor , WA — 1,560  15,947  2,347  1,583  18,271  5,298  2010 1994 3213 45th St. Court NW
Gilbert, AZ 14,200  2,160  28,246  2,255  2,206  30,455  10,058  2013 2008 580 S. Gilbert Road
Glen Cove, NY — 4,594  35,236  2,432  4,643  37,619  11,444  2013 1998 39 Forest A venue(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:           
Glenview , IL — 2,090  69,288  4,924  2,090  74,212  20,009  2012 2001 2200 Golf Road
Golden V alley , MN 3,600  1,520  33,513  1,609  1,634  35,008  8,973  2013 2005 4950 Olson Memorial Highway
Granbury , TX — 2,040  30,670  746 2,040  31,416  8,060  2011 2009 100 W atermark Boulevard
Grimsby , ON — 636 5,617  947 694 6,506  1,441  2015 1991 84 Main Street East
Grosse Pointe W oods,
MI — 950 13,662  913 950 14,575  3,693  2013 2006 1850 V ernier Road
Grosse Pointe W oods,
MI — 1,430  31,777  1,284  1,435  33,056  8,353  2013 2005 21260 Mack A venue
Grove City , OH 36,420  3,575  85,764  966 3,498  86,807  6,373  2018 2017 3717 Orders Road
Guildford, UK — 5,361  56,494  7,236  5,940  63,151  15,926  2013 2006 Astolat W ay, Peasmarsh
Gurnee, IL — 890 27,931  2,610  935 30,496  7,606  2013 2002 500 North Hunt Club Road
Haddonfield, NJ — 520 16,363  641 527 16,997  2,848  2011 2015 132 W arwick Road
Hambur g, NY — 967 10,014  821 967 10,835  1,368  2019 2009 4600 Southwestern Blvd
Hamilton, OH — 1,163  11,968  — 1,163  11,968  957 2019 2019 1740 Eden Park Drive
Hampshire, UK — 4,172  26,035  3,658  4,632  29,233  7,764  2013 2006 22-26 Church Road
Happy V alley , OR — 721 9,920  446 721 10,366  1,051  2019 1998 8915 S.E. Monterey
Haverford, P A — 1,880  33,993  2,745  1,904  36,714  9,369  2010 2000 731 Old Buck Lane
Henderson, NV — 1,190  11,600  1,144  1,253  12,681  4,488  2013 2008 1555 W est Horizon Ridge Parkway
High W ycombe, UK — 3,567  13,422  1,771  3,821  14,939  1,582  2015 2017 The Row Lane End
Highland Park, IL — 2,820  15,832  890 2,820  16,722  3,511 2011 2012 1651 Richfield A venue
Highland Park, IL — 2,250  25,313  1,626  2,271  26,918  7,965  2013 2005 1601 Green Bay Road
Hindhead, UK — 17,852  48,645  8,307  19,769  55,035  6,302  2016 2012 Portsmouth Road
Hingham, MA — 1,440  32,292  408 1,444  32,696  6,220  2015 2012 1 Sgt. W illiam B T erry Drive
Holbrook, NY — 3,957  35,337  2,406  4,219  37,481  9,723  2013 2001 320 Patchogue Holbrook Road
Horley , UK — 2,332  12,144  2,413  2,591  14,298  3,379  2014 2014 Court Lodge Road
Houston, TX — 3,830  55,674  8,871  3,830  64,545  18,81 1 2012 1998 2929 W est Holcombe Boulevard
Houston, TX — 1,040  31,965  6,602  1,040  38,567  9,597  2012 1999 505 Bering Drive
Houston, TX — 1,750  15,603  1,672  1,750  17,275  2,155  2016 2014 10120 Louetta Road
Houston, TX — 960 15,420  — 960 15,420  8,350  2011 1995 10225 Cypresswood Dr
Howell, NJ 7,666  1,066  21,577  1,481  1,154  22,970  6,161  2010 2007 100 Meridian Place
Huntington Beach, CA — 3,808  31,172  2,780  3,931  33,829  10,425  2013 2004 7401 Y orktown A venue
Independence, MO — 1,550  14,441  — 1,550  14,441  1,026  2019 2019 19301 East Eastland Ctr Ct
Jacksonville, FL — 6,550  29,454  — 6,550  29,454  1,395  2019 2019 10520 V alidus Drive
Johns Creek, GA — 1,580  23,285  1,332  1,588  24,609  6,496  2013 2009 11405 Medlock Bridge Road
Johnson City , NY — 1,407  11,862  876 1,407  12,738  1,556  2019 2013 1035 Anna Maria Drive
Kanata, ON — 1,689  28,670  2,552  1,778  31,133  8,426  2012 2005 70 Stonehaven Drive
Kelowna, BC 4,965  2,688  13,647  2,552  2,935  15,952  4,895  2013 1999 863 Leon A venue
Kennebunk, ME — 2,700  30,204  5,668  3,304  35,268  14,599  2013 2006 One Huntington Common Drive
Kenner , LA — 1,100  10,036  3,132  1,100  13,168  10,562  1998 2000 1600 Joe Y enni Blvd
Kennett Square, P A — 1,050  22,946  918 1,104  23,810  6,138  2010 2008 301 V ictoria Gardens Dr .
Kingston, ON 12,018  1,030  11,416  1,968  1,165  13,249  2,524  2015 1983 181 Ontario Street
Kingston upon
Thames, UK — 33,063  46,696  9,565  36,610  52,714  5,883  2016 2014 Coombe Lane W est
Kingwood, TX — 480 9,777  999 480 10,776  3,084  2011 1999 22955 Eastex Freeway
Kingwood, TX — 1,683  24,207  2,495  1,683  26,702  4,596  2017 2012 24025 Kingwood Place
Kirkland, W A — 1,880  4,315  2,248  1,880  6,563  2,334  2003 1996 6505 Lakeview Dr .(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:           
Kitchener , ON 1,281  708 2,744  285 695 3,042  992 2013 1979 164 - 168 Ferfus A venue
Kitchener , ON 3,253  1,093  4,454  1,248  1,186  5,609  2,804  2013 1964 290 Queen Street South
Kitchener , ON 12,138  1,341  13,939  5,013  1,498  18,795  4,293  2016 2003 1250 W eber Street E
Klamath Falls, OR — — — 12,961  1,335  11,626  9 2020 2000 615 W ashburn W ay
La Palma, CA — 2,950  16,591  1,312  2,996  17,857  4,940  2013 2003 5321 La Palma A venue
Lackawanna, NY — 1,015  5,280  478 1,015  5,758  826 2019 2002 133 Orchard Place
Lafayette Hill, P A — 1,750  11,848  2,427  1,867  14,158  5,021  2013 1998 429 Ridge Pike
Laguna Hills, CA — 12,820  75,926  19,497  12,820  95,423  21,737  2016 1988 24903 Moulton Parkway
Laguna W oods, CA — 11,280  76,485  13,280  11,280  89,765  18,637  2016 1987 24441 Calle Sonora
Laguna W oods, CA — 9,150  57,842  12,329  9,150  70,171  14,664  2016 1986 24962 Calle Aragon
Lake Havasu City , AZ — — — 2,126  364 1,762  3 2020 2009 320 Lake Havasu A ve. N,
Lake Zurich, IL — 1,470  9,830  2,867  1,470  12,697  4,766  2011 2007 550 America Court
Lancaster , CA — 700 15,295  2,173  712 17,456  5,756  2010 1999 43051 15th St. W est
Lancaster , NY — 1,262  11,154  976 1,262  12,130  1,611 2019 2011 18 Pavement Road
Las V egas, NV — — — 46,049  5,144  40,905  2,514  2020 1999 1600 S V alley V iew Road
Las V egas, NV — — — 15,509  1,263  14,246  806 2020 2001 3300 W interhaven Street
Las V egas, NV — — — 25,440  2,201  23,239  1,352  2020 1997 3210 S Sandhill Road
Laval, QC 21,939  2,105  32,161  6,328  2,250  38,344  5,879  2018 2005 269, boulevard Ste. Rose
Laval, QC 4,167  2,383  5,968  1,760  2,548  7,563  1,105  2018 1989 263, boulevard Ste. Rose
Lawrenceville, GA — 1,500  29,003  833 1,529  29,807  8,040  2013 2008 1375 W ebb Gin House Road
Leatherhead, UK — 4,682  17,835  2,557  5,016  20,058  1,982  2015 2017 Rectory Lane
Leawood, KS — 2,490  32,493  5,960  5,610  35,333  9,682  2012 1999 4400 W est 115th Street
Lecanto, FL — 200 6,900  481 218 7,363  3,089  2004 1986 2341 W . Norvell Bryant Hwy .
Lenexa, KS 9,700  826 26,251  1,511 927 27,661  7,971  2013 2006 15055 W est 87th Street Parkway
Lincroft, NJ — 9 19,958  1,933  131 21,769  5,983  2013 2002 734 Newman Springs Road
Linwood, NJ — 800 21,984  2,050  861 23,973  6,397  2010 1997 432 Central A ve
Litchfield, CT — 1,240  17,908  11,751  1,292  29,607  6,509  2010 1998 19 Constitution W ay
Little Neck, NY — 3,350  38,461  3,204  3,358  41,657  10,809  2010 2000 5515 Little Neck Pkwy .
Livingston, NJ — 8,000  44,424  1,494  8,017  45,901  5,148  2015 2017 369 E Mt Pleasant A venue
Lombard, IL 17,010  2,130  59,943  1,884  2,218  61,739  15,787  2013 2009 2210 Fountain Square Dr
London, UK — 3,121  10,027  2,450  3,471  12,127  2,483  2014 2012 71 Hatch Lane
London, UK — 7,691  16,797  2,029  8,238  18,279  2,248  2015 2016 6 Victoria Drive
London, UK — — — 77,904  24,836  53,068  1,047  2017 2020 39-41 East Hill, W andsworth
London, ON — 987 8,228  1,414  1,105  9,524  2,117 2015 1989 760 Horizon Drive
London, ON 10,985  1,969  16,985  3,077  2,139  19,892  4,256  2015 1953 1486 Richmond Street North
London, ON — 1,445  13,631  2,339  1,697  15,718  3,060  2015 1950 81 Grand A venue
Longueuil, QC 8,891  3,992  23,71 1 4,942  4,411 28,234  6,240  2015 1989 70 Rue Levis
Longview , TX — 610 5,520  6 610 5,526  2,022  2006 2007 311 E Hawkins Pkwy
Lorain, OH — 1,394  12,960  23 1,394  12,983  763 2019 2018 5401 North Pointe Pkwy
Los Angeles, CA 56,950  — 114,438  8,201  — 122,639  34,914  2011 2009 10475 W ilshire Boulevard
Los Angeles, CA — 3,540  19,007  3,979  3,540  22,986  6,560  2012 2001 2051 N. Highland A venue
Los Angeles, CA — — 28,050  6,009  71 33,988  5,570  2016 2006 4061 Grand V iew Boulevard
Louisville, KY — 2,420  20,816  3,043  2,420  23,859  6,878  2012 1999 4600 Bowling Boulevard(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:           
Louisville, KY 13,650  1,600  20,326  1,150  1,600  21,476  6,154  2013 2010 6700 Overlook Drive
Louisville, CO — 1,939  32,639  1,769  1,939  34,408  3,259  2019 2008 1336 E Hecla Drive
Louisville, CO — 1,156  27,170  — 1,156  27,170  1,228  2019 2019 1800 Plaza Drive
Louisville, CO — 2,584  52,320  6,311 2,584  58,631  6,825  2019 1999 1855 Plaza Drive
Louisville, CO — 1,391  15,783  682 1,391  16,465  1,458  2019 1999 282 McCaslin Blvd
Louisville, CO — 2,332  44,245  2,681  2,332  46,926  4,656  2019 2004 1331 E Hecla Drive
Lynnfield, MA — 3,165  45,200  2,821  3,757  47,429  12,922  2013 2006 55 Salem Street
Mahwah, NJ — 1,605  27,249  1,035  1,608  28,281  4,051  2012 2015 15 Edison Road
Malvern, P A — 1,651  17,194  2,407  1,800  19,452  6,692  2013 1998 324 Lancaster A venue
Mansfield, TX — 660 5,251  22 660 5,273  1,945  2006 2007 2281 Country Club Dr
Manteca, CA — 1,300  12,125  4,040  1,312  16,153  6,471  2005 1986 430 N. Union Rd.
Maple Ridge, BC 8,171  2,875  11,922  2,060  3,244  13,613  2,194  2015 2009 12241 224th Street
Marieville, QC 6,097  1,278  12,113 1,360  1,414  13,337  2,607  2015 2002 425 rue Claude de Ramezay
Markham, ON 50,027  3,727  48,939  5,609  4,002  54,273  17,577  2013 1981 7700 Bayview A venue
Marlboro, NJ — 2,222  14,888  1,619  2,268  16,461  4,821  2013 2002 3A South Main Street
Marlow , UK — 9,068  39,720  3,958  9,714  43,032  5,502  2013 2014 210 Little Marlow Road
Marysville, W A — 620 4,780  2,520  620 7,300  2,747  2003 1998 9802 48th Dr . N.E.
McKinney , TX — 1,570  7,389  10 1,570  7,399  2,312  2009 2010 2701 Alma Rd.
Medicine Hat, AB 10,235  1,432  14,141  1,245  1,562  15,256  4,002  2015 1999 223 Park Meadows Drive SE
Medina, OH — 1,708  12,049  457 1,708  12,506  1,164  2019 2017 699 North Huntington St
Melbourne, FL — 7,070  48,257  44,815  7,070  93,072  28,795  2007 2009 7300 W atersong Lane
Melville, NY — 4,280  73,283  7,588  4,332  80,819  20,582  2010 2001 70 Pinelawn Rd
Memphis, TN — 1,800  17,744  2,960  1,800  20,704  7,011 2012 1999 6605 Quail Hollow Road
Menomonee Falls, WI — 1,020  6,984  2,307  1,020  9,291  2,859  2006 2007 W128 N6900 Northfield Drive
Mesa, AZ — 950 9,087  3,872  950 12,959  6,010  1999 2000 7231 E. Broadway
Metairie, LA 14,200  725 27,708  1,073  740 28,766  7,145  2013 2009 3732 W est Esplanade A ve. S
Mill Creek, W A — 10,150  60,274  4,074  10,179  64,319  21,876  2010 1998 14905 Bothell-Everett Hwy
Milton, ON 19,529  4,542  25,321  4,439  4,966  29,336  4,996  2015 2012 611 Farmstead Drive
Minnetonka, MN — 920 29,344  1,269  964 30,569  7,644  2013 2006 18605 Old Excelsior Blvd.
Mission V iejo, CA 13,280  6,600  52,118 8,559  6,600  60,677  10,757  2016 1998 27783 Center Drive
Mississauga, ON 8,313  1,602  17,996  2,245  1,742  20,101  5,431  2013 1984 1130 Bough Beeches Boulevard
Mississauga, ON 2,802  873 4,655  703 949 5,282  1,540  2013 1978 3051 Constitution Boulevard
Mississauga, ON 26,739  3,649  35,137  4,763  4,004  39,545  10,655  2015 1988 1490 Rathburn Road East
Mississauga, ON 5,998  2,548  15,158  3,882  2,767  18,821  4,409  2015 1989 85 King Street East
Missoula, MT — 550 7,490  919 553 8,406  3,210  2005 1998 3620 American W ay
Mobberley , UK — 5,146  26,665  4,409  5,728  30,492  9,758  2013 2007 Barclay Park, Hall Lane
Molalla, OR — — — 5,468  1,210  4,258  4 2020 1998 835 E Main St
Monterey , CA — 6,440  29,101  2,865  6,443  31,963  8,485  2013 2009 1110 Cass St.
Montgomery , MD — 6,482  83,642  13,251  6,563  96,812  15,680  2018 1992 3701 International Dr
Montgomery V illage,
MD — 3,530  18,246  7,178  4,291  24,663  11,086  2013 1993 19310 Club House Road
Montreal-Nord, QC 11,450  4,407  23,719  10,196  4,713  33,609  5,405  2018 1988 6700, boulevard Gouin Est
Moorestown, NJ — 2,060  51,628  7,445  2,095  59,038  14,024  2010 2000 1205 N. Church St
Moose Jaw , SK 1,785  582 12,973  2,051  631 14,975  3,967  2013 2001 425 4th A venue NW(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:           
Morton Grove, IL — 1,900  19,374  923 1,900  20,297  4,871  2010 2011 5520 N. Lincoln A ve.
Murphy , TX — 1,950  19,182  816 1,950  19,998  2,919  2015 2012 304 W est FM 544
Nacogdoches, TX — 390 5,754  24 390 5,778  2,104  2006 2007 5902 North St
Naperville, IL — 1,550  12,237  2,282  1,550  14,519  4,204  2012 2013 1936 Brookdale Road
Naperville, IL — 1,540  28,204  1,531  1,593  29,682  8,163  2013 2002 535 W est Ogden A venue
Nashville, TN — 3,900  35,788  4,426  3,900  40,214  12,856  2012 1999 4206 Stammer Place
Nepean, ON 5,395  1,575  5,770  1,240  1,735  6,850  2,404  2015 1988 1 Mill Hill Road
New Braunfels, TX — 1,200  19,800  10,442  2,729  28,713  6,464  2011 2009 2294 East Common Street
Newbury , UK — 2,850  12,796  2,074  3,156  14,564  1,717  2015 2016 370 London Road
Newmarket, UK — 4,071  11,902  3,108  4,529  14,552  3,297  2014 2011 Jeddah W ay
Newtown Square, P A — 1,930  14,420  1,686  1,953  16,083  5,468  2013 2004 333 S. Newtown Street Rd.
North T onawanda, NY — 1,203  7,338  600 1,203  7,938  1,030  2019 2005 705 Sandra Lane
North T ustin, CA — 2,880  18,059  1,037  3,044  18,932  4,630  2013 2000 12291 Newport A venue
Oak Harbor , WA — 739 7,670  448 739 8,118 955 2019 1998 171 SW 6th A ve
Oak Park, IL — 1,250  40,383  3,088  1,250  43,471  12,055  2012 2004 1035 Madison Street
Oakdale, P A — 1,882  11,941  880 1,882  12,821  1,599  2019 2017 7420 Steubenville Pike
Oakland, CA — 3,877  47,508  3,619  4,117 50,887  13,960  2013 1999 11889 Skyline Boulevard
Oakton, V A — 2,250  37,576  3,081  2,393  40,514  10,712  2013 1997 2863 Hunter Mill Road
Oakville, ON 5,533  1,252  7,382  1,157  1,415  8,376  2,411 2013 1982 289 and 299 Randall Street
Oakville, ON 8,867  2,134  29,963  4,327  2,324  34,100  9,491  2013 1994 25 Lakeshore Road W est
Oakville, ON 4,647  1,271  13,754  2,153  1,391  15,787  3,939  2013 1988 345 Church Street
Ogden, UT — 360 6,700  1,231  360 7,931  3,102  2004 1998 1340 N. W ashington Blv .
Okotoks, AB 19,133  714 20,943  2,436  792 23,301  5,018  2015 2010 51 Riverside Gate
Orange, CA 35,726  8,021  65,189  3,238  8,021  68,427  4,046  2019 2018 630 The City Drive South
Oshawa, ON 6,609  841 7,570  1,302  946 8,767  2,445  2013 1991 649 King Street East
Ottawa, ON 9,476  1,341  15,425  3,391  1,472  18,685  3,179  2015 2001 110 Berrigan Drive
Ottawa, ON 17,834  3,454  23,309  3,872  3,806  26,829  9,183  2015 1966 2370 Carling A venue
Ottawa, ON 20,373  4,256  39,141  3,116 4,551  41,962  7,496  2015 2005 751 Peter Morand Crescent
Ottawa, ON 7,076  2,103  18,421  5,833  2,331  24,026  4,164  2015 1989 1 Eaton Street
Ottawa, ON 13,466  2,963  26,424  4,433  3,263  30,557  5,313  2015 2008 691 V alin Street
Ottawa, ON 10,169  1,561  18,170  3,517  1,769  21,479  3,608  2015 2006 22 Barnstone Drive
Ottawa, ON 13,374  3,403  31,090  4,858  3,730  35,621  5,964  2015 2009 990 Hunt Club Road
Ottawa, ON 17,052  3,411 28,335  7,114 3,757  35,103  7,156  2015 2009 2 Valley Stream Drive
Ottawa, ON 2,750  724 4,710  721 786 5,369  1,564  2013 1995 1345 Ogilvie Road
Ottawa, ON 2,001  818 2,165  1,338  740 3,581  1,183  2013 1993 370 Kennedy Lane
Ottawa, ON 9,193  2,809  27,299  3,787  3,030  30,865  9,859  2013 1998 43 A ylmer A venue
Ottawa, ON 4,427  1,156  9,758  1,386  1,283  11,017  2,928  2013 1998 1351 Hunt Club Road
Ottawa, ON 5,761  746 7,800  1,471  848 9,169  2,411 2013 1999 140 Darlington Private
Ottawa, ON 8,742  1,176  12,764  1,814  1,316  14,438  2,769  2015 1987 10 Vaughan Street
Outremont, QC 17,538  6,746  45,981  12,666  7,214  58,179  9,960  2018 1976 1000, avenue Rockland
Overland Park, KS — 1,540  16,269  2,197  1,670  18,336  4,577  2012 1998 9201 Foster
Palestine, TX — 180 4,320  1,328  180 5,648  2,083  2006 2005 1625 W . Spring St.
Palo Alto, CA 25,050  — 39,639  3,214  24 42,829  11,441  2013 2007 2701 El Camino Real(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:           
Paramus, NJ — 2,840  35,728  2,006  2,986  37,588  9,852  2013 1998 567 Paramus Road
Paris, TX — 490 5,452  22 490 5,474  5,148  2005 2006 750 N Collegiate Dr
Parma, OH — 1,533  9,203  701 1,533  9,904  1,254  2019 2016 11500 Huf fman Road
Paso Robles, CA — 1,770  8,630  2,748  1,770  11,378  4,685  2002 1998 1919 Creston Rd.
Peabody , MA 5,767  2,250  16,071  1,363  2,380  17,304  3,859  2013 1994 73 Mar gin Street
Pella, IA — 870 6,716  218 886 6,918  1,408  2012 2002 2602 Fifield Road
Pembroke, ON — 1,931  9,427  1,341  2,032  10,667  2,922  2012 1999 1111 Pembroke Street W est
Pennington, NJ — 1,380  27,620  1,557  1,507  29,050  7,227  2011 2000 143 W est Franklin A venue
Peoria, AZ — 766 21,796  1,552  766 23,348  3,314  2018 2014 13391 N 94th Drive
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,580  18,017  11,751  1,587  29,761  5,750  2013 2009 900 Lincoln Club Dr .
Placentia, CA — 8,480  17,076  6,087  8,513  23,130  5,396  2016 1987 1180 N Bradford A venue
Plainview , NY — 3,066  19,901  1,261  3,182  21,046  5,342  2013 2001 1231 Old Country Road
Plano, TX 28,960  3,120  59,950  4,143  3,231  63,982  20,101  2013 2006 4800 W est Parker Road
Plano, TX — 1,750  15,390  1,545  1,750  16,935  2,292  2016 2014 3690 Mapleshade Lane
Playa V ista, CA — 1,580  40,531  3,340  1,677  43,774  11,332  2013 2006 5555 Playa V ista Drive
Pleasanton, CA — — — 52,006  3,676  48,330  2,838  2016 2017 5700 Pleasant Hill Road
Port Perry , ON 11,811 3,685  26,788  4,729  4,001  31,201  5,078  2015 2009 15987 Simcoe Street
Port St. Lucie, FL — 8,700  47,230  21,304  8,700  68,534  21,013  2008 2010 10685 SW Stony Creek W ay
Portage, MI 42,000  2,880  59,955  2,569  2,880  62,524  5,885  2019 2017 3951 W . Milham A ve.
Princeton, NJ — 1,730  30,888  2,325  1,814  33,129  8,500  2011 2001 155 Raymond Road
Princeton, NJ — — — 189 — 189 — 2020 2001 775 Mt Lucas Road
Purley , UK — 7,365  35,161  5,941  8,218  40,249  11,730  2012 2005 21 Russell Hill Road
Puyallup, W A — 1,150  20,776  2,348  1,156  23,118 7,047  2010 1985 123 Fourth A ve. NW
Quebec City , QC 7,816  2,420  21,977  4,060  2,588  25,869  3,705  2018 2000 795, rue Alain
Quebec City , QC 12,074  3,300  28,325  6,353  3,529  34,449  4,722  2018 1987 650 and 700, avenue Murray
Queensbury , NY — 1,260  21,744  1,451  1,273  23,182  3,907  2015 1999 27 W oodvale Road
Rancho Cucamonga,
CA — 1,480  10,055  2,295  2,084  11,746  3,834  2013 2001 9519 Baseline Road
Rancho Palos V erdes,
CA — 5,450  60,034  6,368  5,450  66,402  17,880  2012 2004 5701 Crestridge Road
Randolph, NJ 29,300  1,540  46,934  2,416  1,718  49,172  12,543  2013 2006 648 Route 10 W est
Red Deer , AB 12,346  1,247  19,283  3,064  1,368  22,226  4,375  2015 2004 3100 - 22 Street
Red Deer , AB 14,526  1,199  22,339  3,883  1,296  26,125  5,200  2015 2004 10 Inglewood Drive
Redding, CA 26,446  4,474  36,828  2,161  4,474  38,989  2,943  2019 2017 2150 Bechelli Lane
Regina, SK 5,975  1,485  21,148  2,613  1,705  23,541  6,840  2013 1999 3651 Albert Street
Regina, SK 5,983  1,244  21,036  2,612  1,357  23,535  6,124  2013 2004 3105 Hillsdale Street
Regina, SK 15,178  1,539  24,053  5,214  1,678  29,128  5,238  2015 1992 1801 McIntyre Street
Rehoboth Beach, DE — 960 24,248  9,327  993 33,542  7,929  2010 1999 36101 Seaside Blvd
Reno, NV — 1,060  11,440  1,529  1,060  12,969  5,138  2004 1998 5165 Summit Ridge Court
Ridgeland, MS — 520 7,675  2,051  520 9,726  3,732  2003 1997 410 Orchard Park
Riviere-du-Loup, QC 2,733  592 7,601  1,592  694 9,091  1,704  2015 1956 35 des Cedres
Riviere-du-Loup, QC 12,015  1,454  16,848  5,728  1,847  22,183  5,068  2015 1993 230-235 rue Des Chenes
Rocky Hill, CT — 1,090  6,710  4,381  1,132  11,049  3,613  2003 1996 60 Cold Spring Rd.
Rohnert Park, CA — 6,500  18,700  4,467  6,546  23,121  9,016  2005 1986 4855 Snyder Lane
Romeoville, IL — 854 12,646  61,940  6,197  69,243  20,699  2006 2010 605 S Edward Dr .(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:           
Roseville, MN — 1,540  35,877  1,318  1,648  37,087  9,191  2013 2002 2555 Snelling A venue, North
Roseville, CA — 3,300  41,652  6,978  3,300  48,630  9,235  2016 2000 5161 Foothills Boulevard
Roswell, GA — 1,107  9,627  3,277  1,114 12,897  8,730  1997 1999 655 Mansell Rd.
Roswell, GA — 2,080  6,486  3,577  2,380  9,763  2,377  2012 1997 75 Magnolia Street
Rowlett, TX — 1,610  21,254  223 1,610  21,477  176 2020 2019 4205-4209 Dalrock Rd
Sabre Springs, CA — — — 46,910  3,726  43,184  2,326  2016 2017 12515 Springhurst Drive
Sacramento, CA — 940 14,781  1,759  952 16,528  4,994  2010 1978 6350 Riverside Blvd
Sacramento, CA — 1,300  23,394  1,761  1,369  25,086  6,572  2013 2004 345 Munroe Street
Saint-Lambert, QC 33,489  10,259  61,903  9,649  11,208  70,603  18,472  2015 1989 1705 A venue V ictoria
Salem, OR — — — 11,341  916 10,425  5 2020 1999 4452 Lancaster Dr NE
Salem, OR — — — 10,531  1,227  9,304  5 2020 1997 4050 12th Street Cutof f SE
Salinas, CA — 5,110 41,424  11,019  5,150  52,403  10,619  2016 1990 1320 Padre Drive
Salisbury , UK — 2,720  15,269  2,299  3,012  17,276  3,176  2014 2013 Shapland Close
Salt Lake City , UT — 1,360  19,691  946 1,360  20,637  7,187  2011 1986 1430 E. 4500 S.
San Antonio, TX — 6,120  28,169  2,656  6,120  30,825  7,825  2010 2011 2702 Cembalo Blvd
San Antonio, TX — 5,045  58,048  3,275  5,045  61,323  8,159  2017 2015 11300 W ild Pine
San Antonio, TX — 11,686  69,620  3,634  11,686  73,254  6,766  2019 2016 6870 Heuermann Road
San Diego, CA — 5,810  63,078  4,276  5,810  67,354  20,890  2012 2001 13075 Evening Creek Drive S
San Diego, CA — 3,000  27,164  1,576  3,016  28,724  7,069  2013 2003 810 T urquoise Street
San Diego, CA 29,359  4,179  40,607  1,920  4,179  42,527  2,939  2019 2017 955 Grand A ve
San Francisco, CA — 5,920  91,639  13,785  5,920  105,424  20,404  2016 1998 1550 Sutter Street
San Francisco, CA — 11,800  77,214  10,544  11,800  87,758  16,961  2016 1923 1601 19th A venue
San Gabriel, CA — 3,120  15,566  1,204  3,165  16,725  4,715  2013 2005 8332 Huntington Drive
San Jose, CA — 3,280  46,823  4,443  3,280  51,266  14,267  2012 2002 500 S W inchester Boulevard
San Jose, CA — 11,900  27,647  5,369  11,966  32,950  6,795  2016 2002 4855 San Felipe Road
San Rafael, CA — 1,620  27,392  4,109  1,860  31,261  5,333  2016 2001 111 Merrydale Road
San Ramon, CA — 8,700  72,223  10,149  8,768  82,304  15,770  2016 1992 9199 Fircrest Lane
Sandy Springs, GA — 2,214  8,360  1,541  2,220  9,895  3,551  2012 1997 5455 Glenridge Drive NE
Santa Monica, CA 15,820  5,250  28,340  1,166  5,266  29,490  7,717  2013 2004 1312 15th Street
Santa Rosa, CA — 2,250  26,273  3,761  2,292  29,992  5,429  2016 2001 4225 W ayvern Drive
Saskatoon, SK 3,686  981 13,905  1,961  1,064  15,783  3,927  2013 1999 220 24th Street East
Saskatoon, SK 13,136  1,382  17,609  2,564  1,568  19,987  4,858  2013 2004 1622 Acadia Drive
Schaumbur g, IL — 2,460  22,863  1,454  2,497  24,280  7,172  2013 2001 790 North Plum Grove Road
Scottsdale, AZ — 2,500  3,890  1,505  2,500  5,395  1,692  2008 1998 9410 East Thunderbird Road
Scranton, P A — 875 10,562  695 875 11,257  1,288  2019 2014 1651 Dickson A venue
Seal Beach, CA — 6,204  72,954  3,165  6,271  76,052  23,111 2013 2004 3850 Lampson A venue
Seattle, W A — 5,190  9,350  2,031  5,199  11,372  4,231  2010 1962 11501 15th A ve NE
Seattle, W A 27,180  10,670  37,291  2,007  10,700  39,268  14,21 1 2010 2005 805 4th A ve N
Seattle, W A — 1,150  19,887  2,790  1,153  22,674  4,109  2015 1995 11039 17th A venue
Selbyville, DE — 750 25,912  964 769 26,857  7,050  2010 2008 21111 Arrington Dr
Sevenoaks, UK — 6,181  40,240  8,029  6,844  47,606  14,328  2012 2009 64 - 70 W esterham Road
Severna Park, MD — — 67,623  6,130  44 73,709  12,815  2016 1997 43 W McKinsey Road
Shelby T ownship, MI 13,180  1,040  26,344  1,477  1,110 27,751  7,250  2013 2006 46471 Hayes Road(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:           
Sherman, TX — 700 5,221  7 700 5,228  1,979  2005 2006 1011 E. Pecan Grove Rd.
Shrewsbury , NJ — 2,120  38,116 2,750  2,151  40,835  10,565  2010 2000 5 Meridian W ay
Sidcup, UK — 7,446  56,570  8,847  8,272  64,591  19,813  2012 2000 Frognal A venue
Silver Spring, MD — — — 64,377  3,436  60,941  3,256  2016 2018 2201 Colston Drive
Simi V alley , CA — 3,200  16,664  1,938  3,298  18,504  5,955  2013 2009 190 T ierra Rejada Road
Simi V alley , CA — 5,510  51,406  8,517  5,510  59,923  12,238  2016 2003 5300 E Los Angeles A venue
Solihull, UK — 5,070  43,297  9,048  5,615  51,800  14,877  2012 2009 1270 W arwick Road
Solihull, UK — 3,571  26,053  3,942  4,009  29,557  8,354  2013 2007 1 Worcester W ay
Solihull, UK — 1,851  10,585  2,023  2,049  12,410  1,547  2015 2016 Warwick Road
Sonning, UK — 5,644  42,155  6,442  6,280  47,961  12,724  2013 2009 Old Bath Rd.
Sonoma, CA — 1,100  18,400  4,807  1,109  23,198  8,685  2005 1988 800 Oregon St.
Sonoma, CA — 2,820  21,890  3,292  2,827  25,175  4,594  2016 2005 91 Napa Road
South Jordan, UT — — — 51,165  4,639  46,526  2,705  2020 2015 11289 Oakmond Rd
Southlake, TX — 6,207  56,655  7,624  6,207  64,279  7,920  2019 2008 101 W atermere Drive
Spokane, W A — 3,200  25,064  2,502  3,200  27,566  8,323  2013 2001 3117 E. Chaser Lane
Spokane, W A — 2,580  25,342  2,298  2,580  27,640  7,353  2013 1999 1110 E. W estview Ct.
St. Albert, AB 9,268  1,145  17,863  2,257  1,285  19,980  6,301  2014 2005 78C McKenney A venue
St. John's, NL 5,219  706 11,765  900 760 12,61 1 2,110 2015 2005 64 Portugal Cove Road
Stittsville, ON 4,057  1,175  17,397  2,258  1,346  19,484  4,876  2013 1996 1340 - 1354 Main Street
Stockport, UK — 4,369  25,018  3,888  4,860  28,415  8,513  2013 2008 1 Dairyground Road
Stockton, CA — 2,280  5,983  1,718  2,372  7,609  2,527  2010 1988 6725 Inglewood
Strongsville, OH — 1,113 10,904  656 1,113 11,560  1,451  2019 2017 15100 Howe Road
Stuart, FL — 5,276  23,980  730 5,276  24,710  1,762  2019 2019 2625 SE Cove Road
Studio City , CA — 4,006  25,307  1,401  4,115 26,599  7,825  2013 2004 4610 Coldwater Canyon A venue
Suffield, CT — 4,416  31,176  2,392  4,416  33,568  3,369  2019 1998 7 Canal Road
Sugar Land, TX — 960 31,423  1,184  960 32,607  9,638  2011 1996 1221 Seventh St
Sugar Land, TX — 4,272  60,493  6,546  4,272  67,039  11,697  2017 2015 744 Brooks Street
Summit, NJ — 3,080  14,152  506 3,080  14,658  3,817  2011 2001 41 Springfield A venue
Sun City W est, AZ — 1,250  21,778  1,973  1,250  23,751  5,755  2012 1998 13810 W est Sandridge Drive
Sunninghill, UK — 11,632  42,233  4,116 12,460  45,521  4,347  2014 2017 Bagshot Road
Sunnyvale, CA — 5,420  41,682  3,191  5,420  44,873  12,824  2012 2002 1039 East El Camino Real
Surrey , BC 6,069  3,605  18,818  3,107  3,907  21,623  7,209  2013 2000 16028 83rd A venue
Surrey , BC 15,070  4,552  22,338  3,865  4,952  25,803  9,069  2013 1987 15501 16th A venue
Sutton, UK — 4,096  14,532  3,309  4,538  17,399  1,941  2015 2016 123 W estmead Road
Suwanee, GA — 1,560  11,538  1,672  1,560  13,210  4,220  2012 2000 4315 Johns Creek Parkway
Sway , UK — 4,145  15,508  3,024  4,643  18,034  4,402  2014 2008 Sway Place
Swift Current, SK 1,624  492 10,119 1,412  540 11,483  3,057  2013 2001 301 Macoun Drive
Sylvania, OH — 1,205  11,988  — 1,205  11,988  730 2019 2019 4120 King Road
Syracuse, NY — 1,418  11,617  863 1,418  12,480  1,544  2019 2011 6715 Buckley Road
Tacoma, W A — 4,170  73,377  17,896  4,170  91,273  20,323  2016 1987 8201 6th A venue
Taylor , PA — 1,910  11,996  — 1,910  11,996  434 2019 2020 512 Oak St
The W oodlands, TX — 480 12,379  663 480 13,042  3,755  2011 1999 7950 Bay Branch Dr
Toms River , NJ — 1,610  34,627  1,518  1,695  36,060  9,559  2010 2005 1587 Old Freehold Rd(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:           
Tonawanda, NY — 1,542  13,280  1,252  1,542  14,532  1,927  2019 2011 300 Fries Road
Tonawanda, NY — 2,436  12,507  1,428  2,436  13,935  1,991  2019 2009 285 Crestmount A venue
Toronto, ON 18,270  2,927  20,713  4,407  3,209  24,838  4,394  2015 1900 54 Foxbar Road
Toronto, ON 7,502  5,082  25,493  4,045  5,531  29,089  7,178  2015 1988 645 Castlefield A venue
Toronto, ON 12,566  2,008  19,620  1,826  2,123  21,331  4,384  2015 1999 4251 Dundas Street W est
Toronto, ON 36,318  5,132  41,657  7,211 5,591  48,409  13,447  2015 1964 10 W illiam Mor gan Drive
Toronto, ON 7,586  2,480  7,571  1,381  2,693  8,739  2,385  2015 1971 123 Spadina Road
Toronto, ON 4,640  1,079  5,364  877 1,135  6,185  1,702  2013 1982 25 Centennial Park Road
Toronto, ON 7,273  2,513  19,695  2,668  2,763  22,113 5,163  2013 2002 305 Balliol Street
Toronto, ON 17,430  3,400  32,757  4,542  3,797  36,902  10,244  2013 1973 1055 and 1057 Don Mills Road
Toronto, ON 5,719  1,447  3,918  871 1,598  4,638  1,556  2013 1987 1340 Y ork Mills Road
Toronto, ON 30,720  5,304  53,488  5,453  5,791  58,454  19,389  2013 1988 8 The Donway East
Torrance, CA — 3,497  73,138  297 3,504  73,428  8,315  2016 2016 25535 Hawthorne Boulevard
Tucson, AZ — 830 6,179  5,317  830 11,496  2,496  2012 1997 5660 N. Kolb Road
Tulsa, OK — 1,330  21,285  2,094  1,362  23,347  9,163  2010 1986 8887 South Lewis A ve
Tulsa, OK — 1,500  20,728  114 1,614  20,728  8,988  2010 1984 9524 East 71st St
Turlock, CA — 2,266  12,869  1,122  2,266  13,991  1,748  2019 2001 3791 Crowell Road
Twinsbur g, OH — 1,042  8,343  543 1,042  8,886  1,162  2019 2016 3092 Kendal Lane
Tyler, TX — 650 5,268  24 650 5,292  1,937  2006 2007 5550 Old Jacksonville Hwy .
Upland, CA — 3,160  42,596  98 3,160  42,694  7,628  2015 2014 2419 North Euclid A venue
Upper Providence, P A — 1,900  28,195  489 1,906  28,678  4,254  2013 2015 1133 Black Rock Road
Upper St Claire, P A — 1,102  13,455  1,668  1,153  15,072  4,718  2013 2005 500 V illage Drive
Vacaville, CA — 900 17,100  3,978  900 21,078  8,261  2005 1987 799 Y ellowstone Dr .
Vallejo, CA — 4,000  18,000  5,193  4,030  23,163  8,965  2005 1989 350 Locust Dr .
Vallejo, CA — 2,330  15,407  1,667  2,330  17,074  5,368  2010 1990 2261 T uolumne
Vancouver , WA — 1,820  19,042  1,271  1,821  20,312  6,357  2010 2006 1001 1 NE 1 18th A ve
Vancouver , BC — 7,282  6,572  2,428  7,787  8,495  5,968  2015 1974 2803 W est 41st A venue
Vancouver , WA — — — 16,606  1,406  15,200  6 2020 2001 201 NW 78th St
Vankleek Hill, ON 542 389 2,960  628 426 3,551  1,072  2013 1987 48 W all Street
Vaudreuil, QC 7,888  1,852  14,214  2,062  1,956  16,172  3,404  2015 1975 333 rue Querbes
Vero Beach, FL — 2,930  40,070  26,571  2,930  66,641  28,297  2007 2003 7955 16th Manor
Victoria, BC 6,629  2,856  18,038  2,320  3,121  20,093  6,029  2013 1974 3000 Shelbourne Street
Victoria, BC 18,976  3,681  15,774  2,184  3,997  17,642  5,490  2013 1988 3051 Shelbourne Street
Victoria, BC 17,634  2,476  15,379  2,695  2,718  17,832  3,245  2015 1990 3965 Shelbourne Street
Virginia W ater, UK — 7,106  29,937  9,185  6,029  40,199  13,356  2012 2002 Christ Church Road
Voorhees, NJ — 3,700  24,312  2,565  3,854  26,723  5,739  2012 2013 311 Route 73
Wall, NJ — 1,650  25,350  3,045  1,694  28,351  7,011 2011 2003 2021 Highway 35
Walnut Creek, CA — 3,700  12,467  3,583  3,808  15,942  5,189  2013 1998 2175 Ygnacio V alley Road
Walnut Creek, CA — 10,320  100,890  18,335  10,320  119,225  24,385  2016 1988 1580 Geary Road
Washington, DC — 4,000  69,154  3,369  4,021  72,502  18,471  2013 2004 5111 Connecticut A venue NW
Watchung, NJ — 1,920  24,880  2,084  2,058  26,826  6,743  2011 2000 680 Mountain Boulevard
Waterville, OH — — — 48,130  2,566  45,564  217 2020 2018 1470 Pray Blvd
Waukee, IA — 1,870  31,878  1,042  1,900  32,890  6,744  2012 2007 1650 SE Holiday Crest Circle(1)
(Dollars in thousands)
Initial Cost to Company Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:
Waxahachie, TX — 650 5,763  10 650 5,773  1,997  2007 2008 1329 Brown St.
Wayland, MA — 1,207  27,462  2,437  1,364  29,742  8,380  2013 1997 285 Commonwealth Road
Weatherford, TX — 660 5,261  7 660 5,268  1,949  2006 2007 1818 Martin Drive
Webster Groves, MO — 1,790  15,425  2,711 1,812  18,114 5,560  2011 2012 45 E Lockwood A venue
Welland, ON 5,769  983 7,530  1,086  1,060  8,539  1,525  2015 2006 110 First Street
Wellesley , MA — 4,690  77,462  571 4,690  78,033  15,666  2015 2012 23 & 27 W ashington Street
West Babylon, NY — 3,960  47,085  2,671  4,062  49,654  12,541  2013 2003 580 Montauk Highway
West Bloomfield, MI — 1,040  12,300  945 1,100  13,185  3,728  2013 2000 7005 Pontiac T rail
West Chester T ownship,
OH — 2,281  47,848  1,288  2,281  49,136  317 2020 2019 7129 Gilmore Rd
West Hills, CA — 2,600  7,521  1,760  2,658  9,223  3,344  2013 2002 9012 T opanga Canyon Road
West Seneca, NY — 1,413  6,626  634 1,413  7,260  1,080  2019 2000 1187 Orchard Park Drive
West Seneca, NY — 1,042  7,475  604 1,042  8,079  1,036  2019 2007 2341 Union Road
West V ancouver , BC 17,543  7,059  28,155  5,580  7,717  33,077  9,434  2013 1987 2095 Marine Drive
Westbourne, UK — 5,441  41,420  10,347  6,027  51,181  12,905  2013 2006 16-18 Poole Road
Westford, MA — 1,440  32,607  463 1,468  33,042  5,977  2015 2013 108 Littleton Road
Weston, MA — 1,160  2,750  268 1,160  3,018  1,347  2013 1998 135 North A venue
Westworth V illage, TX — 2,060  31,296  86 2,060  31,382  4,994  2014 2014 25 Leonard T rail
Weybridge, UK — 7,899  48,240  6,767  8,784  54,122  15,969  2013 2008 Ellesmere Road
Weymouth, UK — 2,591  16,551  2,540  2,908  18,774  3,380  2014 2013 Cross Road
White Oak, MD — 2,304  24,768  3,092  2,437  27,727  7,122  2013 2002 11621 New Hampshire A venue
Whitesboro, NY — 1,587  11,946  789 1,587  12,735  1,487  2019 2015 4770 Clinton Road
Willoughby , OH — 1,309  10,536  662 1,309  11,198  1,279  2019 2016 35100 Chardon Road
Wilmington, DE — 1,040  23,338  2,395  1,176  25,597  6,754  2013 2004 2215 Shipley Street
Winchester , UK — 6,009  29,405  4,451  6,671  33,194  9,383  2012 2010 Stockbridge Road
Winnipeg, MB 11,271  1,960  38,612  7,129  2,217  45,484  15,196  2013 1999 857 W ilkes A venue
Winnipeg, MB 25,01 1 1,276  21,732  3,371  1,664  24,715  6,421  2013 1988 3161 Grant A venue
Winnipeg, MB 12,084  1,317  15,609  3,641  1,450  19,117 4,278  2015 1999 125 Portsmouth Boulevard
Woking, UK — 2,990  12,523  1,598  3,210  13,901  1,234  2016 2017 12 Streets Heath, W est End
Wolverhampton, UK — 2,941  8,922  1,846  3,264  10,445  4,030  2013 2008 73 W ergs Road
Woodland Hills, CA — 3,400  20,478  1,441  3,456  21,863  6,494  2013 2005 20461 V entura Boulevard
Yonkers, NY — 3,962  50,107  2,471  4,047  52,493  13,792  2013 2005 65 Crisfield Street
Yorkton, SK 2,996  463 8,760  1,100  504 9,819  2,663  2013 2001 94 Russell Drive
Seniors Housing
Operating T otal $1,706,192  $1,466,472  $13,489,025  $2,648,613  $1,642,393  $15,961,717  $ 3,554,697  (1)
116
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2020  
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:         
Abilene, TX $ — $ 950 $ 20,987  $ 11,660  $ 950 $ 32,647  $ 4,299  2014 1998 6565 Central Park Boulevard
Abilene, TX — 990 8,187  1,089  990 9,276  1,523  2014 1985 1250 East N 10th Street
Aboite T wp, IN — 1,770  19,930  1,601  1,770  21,531  5,743  2010 2008 611 W County Line Rd South
Agawam, MA — 880 16,112 2,134  880 18,246  8,903  2002 1993 1200 Suf field St.
Akron, OH — 633 3,002  — 633 3,002  206 2018 1999 171 North Cleveland Massillon Road
Alexandria, V A — 2,452  6,826  — 2,452  6,826  453 2018 1964 1510 Collingwood Road
Alhambra, CA — 600 6,305  8,847  600 15,152  2,752  2011 1923 1118 N. Stoneman A ve.
Allen Park, MI — 1,767  5,025  — 1,767  5,025  337 2018 1960 9150 Allen Road
Allentown, P A — 494 11,845  — 494 11,845  775 2018 1995 5151 Hamilton Boulevard
Allentown, P A — 1,491  4,822  — 1,491  4,822  331 2018 1988 1265 Cedar Crest Boulevard
Alma, MI — — — 7,810  1,267  6,543  47 2020 2009 1320 Pine A ve
Ames, IA — 330 8,870  7 330 8,877  2,553  2010 1999 1325 Coconino Rd.
Ann Arbor , MI — 2,172  11,123  — 2,172  11,123  786 2018 1997 4701 East Huron River Drive
Annandale, V A — 1,687  18,974  — 1,687  18,974  1,215  2018 2002 7104 Braddock Road
Arlington, V A — 4,016  8,801  — 4,016  8,801  575 2018 1976 550 South Carlin Southprings Road
Asheboro, NC — 290 5,032  312 290 5,344  2,388  2003 1998 514 V ision Dr .
Asheville, NC — 204 3,489  — 204 3,489  2,019  1999 1999 4 Walden Ridge Dr .
Asheville, NC — 280 1,955  532 280 2,487  1,137  2003 1992 308 Overlook Rd.
Atchison, KS — 140 5,610  23 140 5,633  792 2015 2001 1301 N 4th St.
Austin, TX — 1,691  5,005  — 1,691  5,005  436 2018 2000 11630 Four Iron Drive
Avon, IN — 1,830  14,470  34 1,830  14,504  4,349  2010 2004 182 S Country RD. 550E
Avon, IN — 900 19,444  — 900 19,444  3,464  2014 2013 10307 E. CR 100 N
Avon, CT — 2,132  7,624  — 2,132  7,624  610 2018 2000 100 Fisher Drive
Azusa, CA — 570 3,141  7,430  570 10,571  3,607  1998 1953 125 W . Sierra Madre A ve.
Bad Axe, MI — — — 7,289  1,317  5,972  48 2020 2010 150 Meadow Lane
Baldwin City , KS — 190 4,810  55 190 4,865  701 2015 2000 321 Crimson A ve
Baltimore, MD — 4,306  4,303  — 4,306  4,303  308 2018 1978 6600 Ridge Road
Baltimore, MD — 3,069  3,148  — 3,069  3,148  240 2018 1996 4669 Falls Road
Barberton, OH — 1,307  9,310  — 1,307  9,310  605 2018 1979 85 Third Street
Bartlesville, OK — 100 1,380  — 100 1,380  892 1996 1995 5420 S.E. Adams Blvd.
Battle Creek, MI — 857 1,821  — 857 1,821  168 2018 1965 200 Roosevelt A venue East
Bay City , MI — 633 2,619  — 633 2,619  194 2018 1968 800 Mulholland Street
Bedford, P A — 637 4,432  — 637 4,432  341 2018 1965 136 Donahoe Manor Road
Belmont, CA — 3,000  23,526  1,728  3,000  25,254  7,611 2011 1971 1301 Ralston A venue
Belvidere, NJ — 2,001  26,191  — 2,001  26,191  1,614  2019 2009 1 Brookfield Ct
Benbrook, TX — 1,550  13,553  2,747  1,550  16,300  3,667  2011 1984 4242 Bryant Irvin Road
Berkeley , CA 11,689  3,050  32,677  5,008  3,050  37,685  6,816  2016 1966 2235 Sacramento Street
Bethel Park, P A — 1,700  16,007  — 1,700  16,007  5,149  2007 2009 5785 Baptist Road
Bethel Park, P A — 1,008  6,740  — 1,008  6,740  469 2018 1986 60 Highland Road
Bethesda, MD — 2,218  6,869  — 2,218  6,869  440 2018 1974 6530 Democracy Boulevard(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:         
Bethlehem, P A — 1,191  16,887  — 1,191  16,887  1,053  2018 1979 2021 W estgate Drive
Bethlehem, P A — 1,143  13,588  — 1,143  13,588  852 2018 1982 2029 W estgate Drive
Beverly Hills, CA — 6,000  13,385  203 6,000  13,588  2,101  2014 2000 220 N Clark Drive
Bexleyheath, UK — 3,750  10,807  1,564  4,153  11,968  1,931  2014 1996 35 W est Street
Bingham Farms, MI — 781 15,671  — 781 15,671  1,013  2018 1999 24005 W est 13 Mile Road
Birmingham, UK — 1,647  14,853  1,772  1,824  16,448  2,447  2015 2010 Clinton Street, W inson Green
Birmingham, UK — 1,591  19,092  2,222  1,762  21,143  3,100  2015 2010 Braymoor Road, T ile Cross
Birmingham, UK — 1,462  9,056  1,129  1,619  10,028  1,515  2015 2010 Clinton Street, W inson Green
Birmingham, UK — 1,184  10,085  1,211 1,312  11,168  1,650  2015 1997 122 T ile Cross Road, Garretts Green
Bloomington, IN — 670 17,423  — 670 17,423  2,641  2015 2015 363 S. Fieldstone Boulevard
Boca Raton, FL — 2,200  4,974  — 2,200  4,974  419 2018 1994 7225 Boca Del Mar Drive
Boca Raton, FL — 2,826  4,061  — 2,826  4,061  306 2018 1984 375 Northwest 51st Street
Boulder , CO — 3,601  21,364  — 3,601  21,364  1,477  2018 1990 2800 Palo Parkway
Bournemouth, UK — 2,668  16,470  — 2,668  16,470  576 2019 2017 Poole Lane
Boynton Beach, FL — 2,138  10,201  — 2,138  10,201  721 2018 1991 3600 Old Boynton Road
Boynton Beach, FL — 2,804  14,222  — 2,804  14,222  918 2018 1984 3001 South Congress A venue
Bracknell, UK — 4,081  11,470  684 4,372  11,863  1,048  2014 2017 Crowthorne Road North
Bradenton, FL — 252 3,298  — 252 3,298  2,145  1996 1995 6101 Pointe W . Blvd.
Bradenton, FL — 480 9,953  113 480 10,066  2,244  2012 2000 2800 60th A venue W est
Braintree, MA — 170 7,157  1,290  170 8,447  8,447  1997 1968 1102 W ashington St.
Braintree, UK — — 13,296  1,428  — 14,724  2,458  2014 2009 Meadow Park T ortoiseshell W ay
Brecksville, OH — 990 19,353  — 990 19,353  3,434  2014 2011 8757 Brecksville Road
Brick, NJ — 1,290  25,247  1,330  1,290  26,577  6,627  2011 2000 458 Jack Martin Blvd.
Bridgewater , NJ — 1,800  31,810  1,678  1,800  33,488  8,322  2011 2001 680 US-202/206 North
Bristol, UK — — — 22,876  4,382  18,494  1,433  2015 2017 339 Badminton Road
Bristol, UK — 2,337  13,416  — 2,337  13,416  639 2017 2019Avon V alley Care Home, T enniscourt
Road
Brooks, AB 1,662  376 4,951  464 408 5,383  934 2014 2000 951 Cassils Road W est
Bucyrus, OH — 1,119 2,611 — 1,119 2,611 207 2018 1976 1170 W est Mansfield Street
Burleson, TX — 670 13,985  2,457  670 16,442  3,898  2011 1988 300 Huguley Boulevard
Burlington, NC — 280 4,297  849 280 5,146  2,277  2003 2000 3619 S. Mebane St.
Burlington, NC — 460 5,467  110 460 5,577  2,530  2003 1997 3615 S. Mebane St.
Burlington, NJ — 1,700  12,554  501 1,700  13,055  4,074  2011 1965 115 Sunset Road
Burlington, NJ — 1,170  19,205  172 1,170  19,377  5,206  2011 1994 2305 Rancocas Road
Burnaby , BC 7,069  7,623  13,844  1,839  8,273  15,033  2,646  2014 2006 7195 Canada W ay
Calgary , AB 14,118 2,341  42,768  3,912  2,541  46,480  7,760  2014 1971 1729-90th A venue SW
Calgary , AB 23,452  4,569  70,199  6,378  4,958  76,188  12,605  2014 2001 500 Midpark W ay SE
Camp Hill, P A — 517 3,596  — 517 3,596  240 2018 1970 1700 Market Street
Canonsbur g, PA — 911 4,828  — 911 4,828  352 2018 1986 113 W est McMurray Road
Canton, OH — 300 2,098  — 300 2,098  1,214  1998 1998 1119 Perry Dr ., N.W .
Canton, MI — 1,399  16,966  — 1,399  16,966  1,093  2018 2005 7025 Lilley Road
Cape Coral, FL — 530 3,281  — 530 3,281  1,629  2002 2000 911 Santa Barbara Blvd.
Cape Coral, FL 7,925  760 18,868  110 760 18,978  4,296  2012 2009 831 Santa Barbara Boulevard
Cape May Court
House, NJ — 1,440  17,002  1,775  1,440  18,777  3,303  2014 1990 144 Magnolia Drive
Carlisle, P A — 978 8,204  — 978 8,204  562 2018 1987 940 W alnut Bottom Road
Carmel, IN — 1,700  19,491  1 1,700  19,492  3,070  2015 2015 12315 Pennsylvania Street(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:         
Carmel, IN — 1,583  6,069  — 1,583  6,069  447 2018 1985 12999 North Pennsylvania Street
Carmel, IN — — 2,296  — — 2,296  140 2018 1985 12999 North Pennsylvania Street
Carrollton, TX — 2,010  19,549  — 2,010  19,549  2,254  2014 2016 2645 East T rinity Mills Road
Cary , NC — 1,500  4,350  1,366  1,500  5,716  2,956  1998 1996 111 MacArthur
Castleton, IN — 920 15,137  — 920 15,137  2,801  2014 2013 8405 Clearvista Lake
Cedar Grove, NJ — 2,850  27,737  20 2,850  27,757  7,524  2011 1970 536 Ridge Road
Cedar Rapids, IA — 596 9,352  — 596 9,352  592 2018 1965 1940 1st A venue Northeast
Centerville, OH — 920 3,958  — 920 3,958  388 2018 1997 1001 E. Alex Bell Road
Chagrin Falls, OH — 832 10,837  — 832 10,837  731 2018 1999 8100 East W ashington Street
Chambersbur g, PA — 1,373  8,862  — 1,373  8,862  629 2018 1976 1070 Stouf fer A venue
Chapel Hill, NC — 354 2,646  1,201  354 3,847  1,667  2002 1997 100 Lanark Rd.
Charleston, SC — 1,333  5,554  — 1,333  5,554  374 2018 1982 1137 Sam Rittenber g Boulevard
Charleston, WV — 440 17,575  306 440 17,881  4,635  2011 19981000 Association Drive, North Gate
Business Park
Chatham, V A — 320 14,039  — 320 14,039  2,595  2014 2009 100 Rorer Street
Cherry Hill, NJ — 1,416  9,871  — 1,416  9,871  693 2018 1997 2700 Chapel A venue W est
Chester , VA — 1,320  18,127  — 1,320  18,127  3,318  2014 2009 12001 Iron Bridge Road
Chevy Chase, MD — 4,515  8,685  — 4,515  8,685  574 2018 1964 8700 Jones Mill Road
Chickasha, OK — 85 1,395  — 85 1,395  896 1996 1996 801 Country Club Rd.
Chillicothe, OH — 1,145  8,994  — 1,145  8,994  590 2018 1977 1058 Columbus Street
Cincinnati, OH — 912 14,010  — 912 14,010  934 2018 2000 6870 Clough Pike
Citrus Heights, CA — 5,207  31,715  — 5,207  31,715  1,989  2018 1988 7807 Upland W ay
Claremore, OK — 155 1,427  6,130  155 7,557  1,970  1996 1996 1605 N. Hwy . 88
Clarksville, TN — 330 2,292  — 330 2,292  1,322  1998 1998 2183 Memorial Dr .
Clayton, NC — 520 15,733  — 520 15,733  2,636  2014 2013 84 Johnson Estate Road
Clevedon, UK — 2,838  16,927  2,122  3,142  18,745  3,128  2014 1994 18/19 Elton Road
Cloquet, MN — 340 4,660  120 340 4,780  1,239  2011 2006 705 Horizon Circle
Cobham, UK — 9,808  24,991  3,737  10,861  27,675  5,364  2013 2013 Redhill Road
Colchester , CT — 980 4,860  544 980 5,404  1,828  2011 1986 59 Harrington Court
Colorado Springs, CO — 4,280  62,168  — 4,280  62,168  8,523  2015 2008 1605 Elm Creek V iew
Colorado Springs, CO — 1,730  25,493  693 1,730  26,186  3,548  2016 2016 2818 Grand V ista Circle
Columbia, TN — 341 2,295  — 341 2,295  1,324  1999 1999 5011 Trotwood A ve.
Columbia, SC — 1,699  2,319  — 1,699  2,319  170 2018 1968 2601 Forest Drive
Columbia Heights, MN — 825 14,175  163 825 14,338  3,496  2011 2009 3807 Hart Boulevard
Concord, NC — 550 3,921  416 550 4,337  1,959  2003 1997 2452 Rock Hill Church Rd.
Concord, NH — 1,760  43,179  634 1,760  43,813  11,371  2011 1994 239 Pleasant Street
Concord, NH — 720 3,041  340 720 3,381  1,099  2011 1926 227 Pleasant Street
Congleton, UK — 2,036  5,120  768 2,254  5,670  917 2014 1994 Rood Hill
Coppell, TX — 1,550  8,386  228 1,550  8,614  1,872  2012 2013 1530 East Sandy Lake Road
Corby , UK — 1,228  5,144  881 1,240  6,013  595 2017 1997 25 Rockingham Road
Costa Mesa, CA — 2,050  19,969  969 2,050  20,938  6,446  2011 1965 350 W est Bay St
Coventry , UK — 1,962  13,830  1,695  2,172  15,315  2,349  2015 2014 1 Glendale W ay
Crawfordsville, IN — 720 17,239  1,426  720 18,665  3,344  2014 2013 517 Concord Road
Dallastown, P A — 1,377  16,797  — 1,377  16,797  1,121  2018 1979 100 W est Queen Street
Danville, V A — 410 3,954  1,032  410 4,986  2,182  2003 1998 149 Executive Ct.
Danville, V A — 240 8,436  — 240 8,436  1,577  2014 1996 508 Rison Street(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:         
Daphne, AL — 2,880  8,670  384 2,880  9,054  2,143  2012 2001 27440 County Road 13
Davenport, IA — 566 2,017  — 566 2,017  138 2018 1966 815 East Locust Street
Davenport, IA — 910 20,038  — 910 20,038  1,300  2018 2008 3800 Commerce Blvd.
Dayton, OH — 1,188  5,412  — 1,188  5,412  385 2018 1977 1974 North Fairfield Road
Dearborn Heights, MI — 1,197  3,394  — 1,197  3,394  266 2018 1964 26001 Ford Road
Decatur , GA — 1,413  13,796  — 1,413  13,796  857 2018 1977 2722 North Decatur Road
Delray Beach, FL — 1,158  13,572  — 1,158  13,572  912 2018 1998 16150 Jog Road
Delray Beach, FL — 2,125  11,840  — 2,125  11,840  818 2018 1998 16200 Jog Road
Denton, TX — 1,760  8,305  216 1,760  8,521  2,320  2010 2011 2125 Brinker Rd
Denver , CO — 3,222  24,804  — 3,222  24,804  1,547  2018 1988 290 South Monaco Parkway
Derby , UK — 2,359  8,539  776 2,527  9,147  1,220  2014 2015 Rykneld Road
Dover , DE — 600 22,266  141 600 22,407  5,944  2011 1984 1080 Silver Lake Blvd.
Dowagiac, MI — — — 2,603  825 1,778  21 2020 2006 29601 Amerihost Dr
Droitwich, UK — — — 16,380  3,895  12,485  — 2018 2020 Mulberry T ree Hill
Dublin, OH — 1,393  2,911 — 1,393  2,911 237 2018 2014 4075 W . Dublin-Granville Road
Dubuque, IA — 568 8,902  — 568 8,902  564 2018 1971 901 W est Third Street
Dunedin, FL — 1,883  13,325  — 1,883  13,325  849 2018 1983 870 Patricia A venue
Durham, NC — 1,476  10,659  3,085  1,476  13,744  12,561  1997 1999 4434 Ben Franklin Blvd.
Eagan, MN 15,890  2,260  31,643  300 2,260  31,943  4,397  2015 2004 3810 Alder A venue
East Brunswick, NJ — 1,380  34,229  1,093  1,380  35,322  8,636  2011 1998 606 Cranbury Rd.
Eastbourne, UK — 4,071  24,438  3,062  4,508  27,063  4,457  2014 1999 Carew Road
Easton, P A — 1,109  7,500  — 1,109  7,500  651 2018 2015 4100 Freemansbur g Avenue
Easton, P A — 1,430  13,396  — 1,430  13,396  898 2018 1981 2600 Northampton Street
Easton, P A — 1,620  10,049  — 1,620  10,049  796 2018 2000 4100 Freemansbur g Avenue
Eden, NC — 390 4,877  86 390 4,963  2,277  2003 1998 314 W . Kings Hwy .
Edmond, OK — 410 8,388  — 410 8,388  1,988  2012 2001 15401 North Pennsylvania A venue
Edmond, OK — 1,810  14,849  3,260  1,810  18,109  2,931  2014 1985 1225 Lakeshore Drive
Edmond, OK — 1,650  25,167  1,700  1,650  26,867  2,824  2014 2017 2709 East Danforth Road
Elizabeth City , NC — 200 2,760  2,197  200 4,957  2,487  1998 1999 400 Hastings Lane
Elk Grove V illage, IL — 1,344  7,073  — 1,344  7,073  496 2018 1995 1940 Ner ge Road Elk
Elk Grove V illage, IL — 3,733  18,745  — 3,733  18,745  1,163  2018 1988 1920 Ner ge Road
Encinitas, CA — 1,460  7,721  1,987  1,460  9,708  4,656  2000 1988 335 Saxony Rd.
Englewood, NJ — 930 4,514  26 930 4,540  1,354  2011 1966 333 Grand A venue
Escondido, CA — 1,520  24,024  785 1,520  24,809  7,574  2011 1987 1500 Borden Rd
Eureka, KS — 50 3,950  71 50 4,021  568 2015 1994 1820 E River St
Everett, W A — 1,400  5,476  — 1,400  5,476  3,080  1999 1999 2015 Lake Heights Dr .
Exton, P A — 3,600  27,267  — 3,600  27,267  2,086  2017 2018 501 Thomas Jones W ay
Fairfax, V A — 1,827  17,304  — 1,827  17,304  1,171  2018 1997 12469 Lee Jackson Mem Highway
Fairfax, V A — 4,099  17,614  — 4,099  17,614  1,166  2018 199012475 Lee Jackson Memorial
Highway
Fairhope, AL — 570 9,119 112 570 9,231  2,164  2012 1987 50 Spring Run Road
Fall River , MA — 620 5,829  4,856  620 10,685  5,967  1996 1973 1748 Highland A ve.
Fanwood, NJ — 2,850  55,175  1,467  2,850  56,642  13,649  2011 1982 295 South A ve.
Faribault, MN — 780 11,539  300 780 11,839  1,578  2015 2003 828 1st Street NE
Farmington, CT — 1,693  10,455  — 1,693  10,455  722 2018 1997 45 South Road
Farnborough, UK — 2,036  5,737  834 2,254  6,353  998 2014 1980 Bruntile Close, Reading Road(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:         
Fayetteville, P A — 2,150  20,173  — 2,150  20,173  4,633  2015 1991 6375 Chambersbur g Road
Fayetteville, NY — 410 3,962  500 410 4,462  2,187  2001 1997 5125 Highbridge St.
Findlay , OH — 200 1,800  — 200 1,800  1,104  1997 1997 725 Fox Run Rd.
Fishers, IN — 1,500  14,500  21 1,500  14,521  4,357  2010 2000 9745 Olympia Dr .
Fishersville, V A — 788 2,101  3 788 2,104  908 2018 1998 83 Crossroad Lane
Flint, MI — 1,271  18,050  — 1,271  18,050  1,135  2018 1969 3011 North Center Road
Florence, NJ — 300 2,978  — 300 2,978  1,474  2002 1999 901 Broad St.
Flourtown, P A — 1,800  14,830  266 1,800  15,096  4,159  2011 1908 350 Haws Lane
Flower Mound, TX — 1,800  8,414  253 1,800  8,667  2,066  2011 2012 4141 Long Prairie Road
Floyd, V A — 680 3,618  4 680 3,622  679 2018 1979 237 Franklin Pike Rd SE
Flushing, MI — 690 1,701  — 690 1,701  178 2018 1999 640 Sunnyside Drive
Flushing, MI — 1,415  8,533  — 1,415  8,533  588 2018 1967 540 Sunnyside Drive
Forest City , NC — 320 4,497  208 320 4,705  2,113 2003 1999 493 Piney Ridge Rd.
Fort Ashby , WV — 330 19,566  356 330 19,922  5,139  2011 1980 Diane Drive, Box 686
Fort Collins, CO — 3,680  58,608  — 3,680  58,608  8,009  2015 2007 4750 Pleasant Oak Drive
Fort Collins, CO — 890 4,532  4 890 4,536  561 2018 1965 1005 East Elizabeth
Fort W orth, TX — 450 13,615  5,086  450 18,701  5,411 2010 2011 425 Alabama A ve.
Fountain V alley , CA — 5,259  9,375  — 5,259  9,375  619 2018 1988 11680 W arner A venue
Franconia, NH — 360 11,320  70 360 11,390  3,062  2011 1971 93 Main Street
Fredericksbur g, VA — 1,000  20,000  2,161  1,000  22,161  8,448  2005 1999 3500 Meekins Dr .
Fredericksbur g, VA — 1,130  23,202  — 1,130  23,202  4,022  2014 2010 140 Brimley Drive
Ft. Myers, FL — 1,110 10,559  — 1,110 10,559  717 2018 1999 15950 McGregor Boulevard
Ft. Myers, FL — 2,139  18,235  — 2,139  18,235  1,210  2018 1990 1600 Matthew Drive
Ft. Myers, FL — 2,502  9,741  — 2,502  9,741  782 2018 2000 13881 Eagle Ridge Drive
Gainesville, FL — — — 31,462  2,374  29,088  964 2016 2018 3605 NW 83rd Street
Galesbur g, IL — 1,708  3,839  — 1,708  3,839  258 2018 1964 280 East Losey Street
Gardner , KS — 200 2,800  93 200 2,893  433 2015 2000 869 Juniper T errace
Gastonia, NC — 470 6,129  55 470 6,184  2,826  2003 1998 1680 S. New Hope Rd.
Gastonia, NC — 310 3,096  85 310 3,181  1,497  2003 1994 1717 Union Rd.
Gastonia, NC — 400 5,029  624 400 5,653  2,385  2003 1996 1750 Robinwood Rd.
Geneva, IL — 1,502  16,193  — 1,502  16,193  1,071  2018 2000 2388 Bricher Road
Geor getown, TX — 200 2,100  — 200 2,100  1,278  1997 1997 2600 University Dr ., E.
Gig Harbor , WA — 3,000  4,461  — 3,000  4,461  362 2018 1990 3309 45th Street Court Northwest
Glen Ellyn, IL — 1,496  6,634  — 1,496  6,634  488 2018 2001 2S706 Park Boulevard
Granbury , TX — 2,550  2,940  777 2,550  3,717  1,015  2012 1996 916 East Highway 377
Granger , IN — 1,670  21,280  2,401  1,670  23,681  6,248  2010 2009 6330 North Fir Rd
Grapevine, TX — 2,220  17,648  112 2,220  17,760  2,451  2013 2014 4545 Merlot Drive
Greeley , CO — 1,077  18,051  — 1,077  18,051  1,877  2017 2009 5300 W est 29th Street
Greensboro, NC — 330 2,970  643 330 3,613  1,669  2003 1996 5809 Old Oak Ridge Rd.
Greensboro, NC — 560 5,507  1,390  560 6,897  3,072  2003 1997 4400 Lawndale Dr .
Greenville, MI — — — 5,831  1,490  4,341  41 2020 2016 1515 Meijer Dr
Greenville, SC — 310 4,750  252 310 5,002  2,143  2004 1997 23 Southpointe Dr .
Greenville, SC — 1,751  8,771  — 1,751  8,771  596 2018 1966 600 Sulphur Springs Road
Greenville, SC — 947 1,445  — 947 1,445  164 2018 1976 601 Sulphur Springs Road
Greenville, NC — 290 4,393  328 290 4,721  2,097  2003 1998 2715 Dickinson A ve.(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:         
Greenwood, IN — 1,550  22,770  81 1,550  22,851  6,128  2010 2007 2339 South SR 135
Grosse Pointe, MI — 867 2,385  — 867 2,385  170 2018 1964 21401 Mack A venue
Groton, CT — 2,430  19,941  968 2,430  20,909  6,038  2011 1975 1145 Poquonnock Road
Hamilton, NJ — 440 4,469  — 440 4,469  2,206  2001 1998 1645 Whitehorse-Mercerville Rd.
Hanahan, SC — 1,934  3,986  — 1,934  3,986  322 2018 1989 1800 Eagle Landing Boulevard
Hanford, UK — 1,382  9,829  1,204  1,530  10,885  2,131  2013 2012 Bankhouse Road
Harrisbur g, PA — 569 12,822  — 569 12,822  844 2018 2000 2625 Ailanthus Lane
Harrow , UK — 7,402  8,266  1,683  8,197  9,154  1,538  2014 2001 177 Preston Hill
Hastings, MI — — — 8,122  1,603  6,519  51 2020 2002 1821 N. East St
Hatboro, P A — — 28,112 1,771  — 29,883  7,692  2011 1996 3485 Davisville Road
Hatboro, P A — 1,192  7,608  — 1,192  7,608  683 2018 2000 779 W est County Line Road
Hatfield, UK — 2,924  7,527  1,122  3,238  8,335  1,644  2013 2012 St Albans Road East
Hattiesbur g, MS — 450 13,469  — 450 13,469  3,467  2010 2009 217 Methodist Hospital Blvd
Hemet, CA — 6,224  8,410  — 6,224  8,410  575 2018 1989 1717 W est Stetson A venue
Henry , IL — 1,860  3,688  — 1,860  3,688  239 2018 1987 1650 Old Indian T own Road
Hermitage, TN — 1,500  9,943  540 1,500  10,483  2,470  2011 2006 4131 Andrew Jackson Parkway
Herne Bay , UK — 1,900  24,353  3,585  2,104  27,734  5,757  2013 2011 165 Reculver Road
Hiawatha, KS — 40 4,210  29 40 4,239  619 2015 1996 400 Kansas A ve
Hickory , NC — 290 987 374 290 1,361  696 2003 1994 2530 16th St. N.E.
High Point, NC — 560 4,443  894 560 5,337  2,450  2003 2000 1568 Skeet Club Rd.
High Point, NC — 370 2,185  464 370 2,649  1,265  2003 1999 1564 Skeet Club Rd.
High Point, NC — 330 3,395  126 330 3,521  1,609  2003 1994 201 W . Hartley Dr .
High Point, NC — 430 4,143  186 430 4,329  1,937  2003 1998 1560 Skeet Club Rd.
Highlands Ranch, CO — 940 3,721  4,983  940 8,704  2,728  2002 1999 9160 S. University Blvd.
Hillsboro, OH — 1,792  6,339  — 1,792  6,339  589 2018 1983 1141 Northview Drive
Hinckley , UK — 2,159  4,194  682 2,391  4,644  1,003  2013 2013 Tudor Road
Hinsdale, IL — 4,033  24,280  — 4,033  24,280  1,517  2018 1971 600 W Ogden A venue
Hockessin, DE — 1,120  6,308  1,247  1,120  7,555  1,385  2014 1992 100 Saint Claire Drive
Holton, KS — 40 7,460  13 40 7,473  1,018  2015 1996 410 Juniper Dr
Homewood, IL — 2,395  7,649  — 2,395  7,649  489 2018 1989 940 Maple A venue
Howard, WI — 579 32,122  3,072  633 35,140  3,268  2017 2016 2790 Elm T ree Hill
Huntingdon V alley , PA — 1,150  3,728  — 1,150  3,728  355 2018 1993 3430 Huntingdon Pike
Hutchinson, KS — 600 10,590  397 600 10,987  4,525  2004 1997 2416 Brentwood
Independence, V A — 1,082  6,767  7 1,082  6,774  1,221  2018 1998 400 S Independence A ve
Indianapolis, IN — 870 14,688  — 870 14,688  2,729  2014 2014 1635 N Arlington A venue
Indianapolis, IN — 1,105  6,642  — 1,105  6,642  428 2018 1979 8549 South Madison A venue
Jackson, NJ — 6,500  26,405  3,107  6,500  29,512  6,091  2012 2001 2 Kathleen Drive
Jacksonville, FL — 750 25,231  115 750 25,346  2,963  2013 2014 5939 Roosevelt Boulevard
Jacksonville, FL — — 26,381  1,805  1,691  26,495  3,092  2013 2014 4000 San Pablo Parkway
Jacksonville, FL — 1,752  2,552  — 1,752  2,552  173 2018 1989 3648 University Blvd South
Jacksonville, FL — 2,182  9,488  — 2,182  9,488  689 2018 1980 8495 Normandy Blvd
Jefferson Hills, P A — 2,265  13,614  — 2,265  13,614  1,309  2018 1997 380 W ray Lar ge Road
Jersey Shore, P A — 600 8,104  — 600 8,104  499 2018 1973 1008 Thompson Street
Kansas City , KS — 700 20,115 — 700 20,115 2,890  2015 2015 8900 Parallel Parkway
Katy , TX — 1,778  22,622  — 1,778  22,622  2,366  2017 2015 24802 Kingsland Boulevard(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:         
Kensington, MD — 1,753  18,621  — 1,753  18,621  1,186  2018 2002 4301 Knowles A venue
Kenwood, OH — 821 11,040  — 821 11,040  727 2018 2000 4580 East Galbraith Road
Kettering, OH — 1,229  4,701  — 1,229  4,701  352 2018 1977 3313 W ilmington Pike
King of Prussia, P A — 720 14,776  — 720 14,776  1,009  2018 1995 620 W est V alley For ge Road
King of Prussia, P A — 1,205  4,725  — 1,205  4,725  381 2018 1990 600 W est V alley For ge Road
Kingsford, MI — 1,362  10,594  — 1,362  10,594  727 2018 1968 1225 W oodward A venue
Kingston, P A — 986 5,710  — 986 5,710  382 2018 1974 200 Second A venue
Kirkstall, UK — 2,437  9,414  1,272  2,698  10,425  2,047  2013 2009 29 Broad Lane
Kokomo, IN — 710 16,044  — 710 16,044  2,974  2014 2014 2200 S. Dixon Rd
Lacey , WA — 2,582  18,175  — 2,582  18,175  1,175  2018 2012 4524 Intelco Loop SE
Lafayette, CO — 1,420  20,192  — 1,420  20,192  3,143  2015 2015 329 Exempla Circle
Lafayette, IN — 670 16,833  1 670 16,834  2,866  2015 2014 2402 South Street
Lakeway , TX — 5,142  23,203  — 5,142  23,203  4,717  2007 2011 2000 Medical Dr
Lakewood, CO — 2,160  28,091  62 2,160  28,153  5,037  2014 2010 7395 W est Eastman Place
Lakewood Ranch, FL — 650 6,714  1,988  650 8,702  1,939  2011 2012 8230 Nature's W ay
Lakewood Ranch, FL — 1,000  22,388  89 1,000  22,477  5,000  2012 2005 8220 Natures W ay
Lancaster , PA — 1,680  14,039  — 1,680  14,039  1,557  2015 2017 31 Millersville Road
Lancaster , PA — 1,011 7,502  — 1,011 7,502  502 2018 1966 100 Abbeyville Road
Lapeer , MI — — — 10,621  1,827  8,794  65 2020 2004 101 Devonshire Dr
Largo, FL — 1,166  3,426  — 1,166  3,426  296 2018 1997 300 Highland A venue Northeast
Las V egas, NV — 580 23,420  — 580 23,420  5,846  2011 2002 2500 North T enaya W ay
Laureldale, P A — 1,171  14,420  — 1,171  14,420  931 2018 1980 2125 Elizabeth A venue
Lawrence, KS — 250 8,716  — 250 8,716  1,923  2012 1996 3220 Peterson Road
Lebanon, P A — 728 10,367  — 728 10,367  733 2018 1998 100 T uck Court
Lebanon, P A — 1,214  5,960  — 1,214  5,960  473 2018 1980 900 T uck Street
Lee, MA — 290 18,135  926 290 19,061  9,316  2002 1998 600 & 620 Laurel St.
Leeds, UK — 1,974  13,239  1,634  2,186  14,661  2,160  2015 2013 100 Grove Lane
Leicester , UK — 3,060  24,410  2,950  3,388  27,032  5,645  2012 2010 307 London Road
Lenoir , NC — 190 3,748  920 190 4,668  2,047  2003 1998 1145 Powell Rd., N.E.
Lethbridge, AB 1,245  1,214  2,750  347 1,317  2,994  674 2014 2003 785 Columbia Boulevard W est
Lexana, KS — 480 1,770  152 480 1,922  311 2015 1994 8710 Caenen Lake Rd
Lexington, NC — 200 3,900  1,123  200 5,023  2,359  2002 1997 161 Y oung Dr .
Libertyville, IL — 6,500  40,024  75 6,500  40,099  10,693  2011 2001 901 Florsheim Dr
Libertyville, IL — 2,993  11,546  — 2,993  11,546  732 2018 1988 1500 South Milwaukee
Lichfield, UK — 1,382  30,324  3,405  1,530  33,581  4,959  2015 2012 Wissage Road
Lillington, NC — 470 17,579  — 470 17,579  3,140  2014 2013 54 Red Mulberry W ay
Lillington, NC — 500 16,451  — 500 16,451  2,759  2014 1999 2041 NC-210 N
Lincoln, NE — 390 13,807  95 390 13,902  3,884  2010 2000 7208 V an Dorn St.
Lititz, P A — 1,200  13,836  — 1,200  13,836  1,537  2015 2016 80 W est Millport Road
Livermore, CA — 4,100  24,996  79 4,100  25,075  3,910  2014 1974 35 Fenton Street
Livonia, MI — 985 13,555  — 985 13,555  924 2018 1999 32500 Seven Mile Road
Livonia, MI — 1,836  2,277  — 1,836  2,277  185 2018 1960 28550 Five Mile Road
Longwood, FL — 1,260  6,445  — 1,260  6,445  1,742  2011 2011 425 South Ronald Reagan Boulevard
Los Angeles, CA — — 11,430  1,058  — 12,488  3,719  2008 1971 330 North Hayworth A venue
Louisbur g, KS — 280 4,320  44 280 4,364  601 2015 1996 202 Rogers St(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:         
Louisville, KY — 490 10,010  2,768  490 12,778  5,419  2005 1978 4604 Lowe Rd
Loxley , UK — 1,369  15,668  2,636  1,516  18,157  3,551  2013 2008 Loxley Road
Lutherville, MD — 1,100  19,786  1,744  1,100  21,530  5,663  2011 1988 515 Brightfield Road
Lynchbur g, VA — 340 16,114 — 340 16,114 2,923  2014 2013 189 Monica Blvd
Lynchbur g, VA — 2,904  3,696  — 2,904  3,696  244 2018 1978 2200 Landover Place
Lynnwood, W A — 2,302  5,632  — 2,302  5,632  378 2018 1987 3701 188th Street
Macomb, IL — 1,586  4,058  — 1,586  4,058  260 2018 1966 8 Doctors Lane
Macungie, P A — 960 29,033  84 960 29,117 7,618  2011 1994 1718 Spring Creek Road
Manalapan, NJ — 900 22,624  760 900 23,384  5,745  2011 2001 445 Route 9 South
Manassas, V A — 750 7,446  1,103  750 8,549  3,484  2003 1996 8341 Barrett Dr .
Mankato, MN — 1,460  32,104  300 1,460  32,404  4,285  2015 2006 100 Dublin Road
Marietta, OH — 1,149  9,373  — 1,149  9,373  614 2018 1977 5001 State Route 60
Marietta, GA — 2,406  12,229  — 2,406  12,229  784 2018 1980 4360 Johnson Ferry Place
Marietta, P A — 1,050  13,633  537 1,050  14,170  1,944  2015 1999 2760 Maytown Road
Marion, IN — 720 9,604  — 720 9,604  2,465  2014 2012 614 W . 14th Street
Marion, IN — 990 9,190  824 990 10,014  2,322  2014 1976 505 N. Bradner A venue
Marion, OH — 2,768  17,415  — 2,768  17,415  1,453  2018 2004 400 Barks Road W est
Marlborough, UK — 2,677  6,822  1,021  2,965  7,555  1,240  2014 1999 The Common
Martinsville, V A — 349 — — 349 — — 2003 1900 Rolling Hills Rd. & US Hwy . 58
Matawan, NJ — 1,830  20,618  166 1,830  20,784  5,370  2011 1965 625 State Highway 34
Matthews, NC — 560 4,738  137 560 4,875  2,252  2003 1998 2404 Plantation Center Dr .
McHenry , IL — 1,576  — — 1,576  — — 2006 1900 5200 Block of Bull V alley Road
McMurray , PA — 1,440  15,805  3,894  1,440  19,699  4,738  2010 2011 240 Cedar Hill Dr
Medicine Hat, AB 2,046  932 5,566  564 1,012  6,050  1,082  2014 1999 65 Valleyview Drive SW
Mentor , OH — 1,827  9,938  — 1,827  9,938  660 2018 1985 8200 Mentor Hills Drive
Mercerville, NJ — 860 9,929  173 860 10,102  2,922  2011 1967 2240 White Horse- Merceville Road
Meriden, CT — 1,300  1,472  233 1,300  1,705  961 2011 1968 845 Paddock A ve
Miamisbur g, OH — 786 3,232  — 786 3,232  303 2018 1983 450 Oak Ridge Boulevard
Middlebur g Heights,
OH — 960 7,780  472 960 8,252  3,326  2004 1998 15435 Bagley Rd.
Middleton, WI — 420 4,006  600 420 4,606  2,141  2001 1991 6701 Stonefield Rd.
Milton Keynes, UK — 1,826  18,654  2,199  2,022  20,657  3,141  2015 2007 Tunbridge Grove, Kents Hill
Minnetonka, MN — 2,080  24,360  1,806  2,080  26,166  6,883  2012 1999 500 Carlson Parkway
Mishawaka, IN — 740 10,698  — 740 10,698  3,023  2014 2013 60257 Bodnar Blvd
Moline, IL — 2,946  18,672  — 2,946  18,672  1,158  2018 1964 833 Sixteenth A venue
Monmouth Junction,
NJ — 720 6,209  86 720 6,295  1,919  2011 1996 2 Deer Park Drive
Monroe, NC — 470 3,681  839 470 4,520  2,050  2003 2001 918 Fitzgerald St.
Monroe, NC — 310 4,799  922 310 5,721  2,585  2003 2000 919 Fitzgerald St.
Monroe, NC — 450 4,021  386 450 4,407  1,955  2003 1997 1316 Patterson A ve.
Monroe T ownship, NJ — 3,250  27,771  765 3,250  28,536  3,767  2015 1996 319 Forsgate Drive
Monroeville, P A — 1,216  12,749  — 1,216  12,749  1,006  2018 1997 120 W yngate Drive
Monroeville, P A — 1,237  3,641  — 1,237  3,641  383 2018 1996 885 MacBeth Drive
Montgomeryville, P A — 1,176  9,824  — 1,176  9,824  686 2018 1989 640 Bethlehem Pike
Montville, NJ — 3,500  31,002  1,699  3,500  32,701  8,126  2011 1988 165 Changebridge Rd.
Moorestown, NJ — 4,143  23,902  — 4,143  23,902  4,655  2012 2014 250 Marter A venue
Morehead City , NC — 200 3,104  1,787  200 4,891  2,483  1999 1999 107 Bryan St.(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:         
Morrison, CO — 2,720  16,261  17 2,720  16,278  1,983  2018 1974 150 Spring Street
Moulton, UK — 1,695  12,510  2,079  1,711 14,573  1,368  2017 1995 Northampton Lane North
Mountainside, NJ — 3,097  7,807  — 3,097  7,807  525 2018 1988 1180 Route 22
Mt. Pleasant, MI — — — 8,330  1,863  6,467  57 2020 2013 2378 S. Lincoln Rd
Naperville, IL — 3,470  29,547  62 3,470  29,609  8,046  2011 2001 504 North River Road
Naples, FL — 1,222  10,639  — 1,222  10,639  749 2018 1998 6125 Rattlesnake Hammock Road
Naples, FL — 1,672  23,119 — 1,672  23,119 1,813  2018 1993 1000 Lely Palms Drive
Naples, FL — 1,854  12,398  — 1,854  12,398  786 2018 1987 3601 Lakewood Boulevard
Nashville, TN — 4,910  29,590  — 4,910  29,590  9,905  2008 2007 15 Burton Hills Boulevard
Naugatuck, CT — 1,200  15,826  199 1,200  16,025  4,382  2011 1980 4 Hazel A venue
Needham, MA — 1,610  12,667  — 1,610  12,667  5,960  2002 1994 100 W est St.
New Lenox, IL — 1,225  21,575  — 1,225  21,575  1,067  2019 2007 1023 South Cedar Rd
New Moston, UK — 1,480  4,378  630 1,639  4,849  991 2013 2010 90a Broadway
Newark, DE — 560 21,220  2,442  560 23,662  9,189  2004 1998 200 E. V illage Rd.
Newcastle Under
Lyme, UK — 1,110 5,655  728 1,230  6,263  1,223  2013 2010 Hempstalls Lane
Newcastle-under -
Lyme, UK — 1,125  5,537  716 1,246  6,132  1,006  2014 1999 Silverdale Road
Newport News, V A — 839 6,077  6 839 6,083  1,071  2018 1998 12997 Nettles Dr
Norman, OK — 55 1,484  — 55 1,484  1,000  1995 1995 1701 Alameda Dr .
Norman, OK — 1,480  33,330  — 1,480  33,330  7,285  2012 1985 800 Canadian T rails Drive
North Augusta, SC — 332 2,558  — 332 2,558  1,467  1999 1998 105 North Hills Dr .
North Cape May , NJ — 77 151 4,294  77 4,445  328 2015 1988 610 T own Bank Road
Northampton, UK — 5,182  17,348  2,420  5,738  19,212  3,900  2013 2011 Cliftonville Road
Northampton, UK — 2,013  6,257  889 2,230  6,929  1,068  2014 2014 Cliftonville Road
Northbrook, IL — 1,298  13,337  — 1,298  13,337  866 2018 1999 3240 Milwaukee A venue
Nuneaton, UK — 3,325  8,983  1,321  3,682  9,947  1,944  2013 2011 132 Coventry Road
Nuthall, UK — 1,628  6,263  848 1,803  6,936  1,055  2014 2014 172A Nottingham Road
Nuthall, UK — 2,498  10,436  1,390  2,767  11,557  2,282  2013 2011 172 Nottingham Road
Oak Lawn, IL — 2,418  5,426  — 2,418  5,426  350 2018 1977 9401 South Kostner A venue
Oak Lawn, IL — 3,876  7,985  — 3,876  7,985  534 2018 1960 6300 W 95th Street
Oakland, CA — 4,760  16,143  282 4,760  16,425  2,808  2014 2002 468 Perkins Street
Ocala, FL — 1,340  10,564  105 1,340  10,669  3,369  2008 2009 2650 SE 18TH A venue
Oklahoma City , OK — 590 7,513  — 590 7,513  2,589  2007 2008 13200 S. May A ve
Oklahoma City , OK — 760 7,017  — 760 7,017  2,401  2007 2009 11320 N. Council Road
Oklahoma City , OK — — — 17,862  1,590  16,272  563 2014 2016 2800 SW 131st Street
Olathe, KS — 1,930  19,765  553 1,930  20,318  2,998  2016 2015 21250 W 151 Street
Omaha, NE — 370 10,230  — 370 10,230  2,916  2010 1998 11909 Miracle Hills Dr .
Omaha, NE — 380 8,769  — 380 8,769  2,641  2010 1999 5728 South 108th St.
Ona, WV — 950 7,460  — 950 7,460  2,049  2015 2007 100 W eatherholt Drive
Oneonta, NY — 80 5,020  — 80 5,020  1,697  2007 1996 1846 County Highway 48
Orange Park, FL — 2,201  4,016  — 2,201  4,016  361 2018 1990 570 W ells Road
Orem, UT — 2,150  24,107  — 2,150  24,107  3,264  2015 2014 250 East Center Street
Osage City , KS — 50 1,700  142 50 1,842  311 2015 1996 1403 Laing St
Osawatomie, KS — 130 2,970  136 130 3,106  477 2015 2003 1520 Parker A ve
Ottawa, KS — 160 6,590  44 160 6,634  928 2015 2007 2250 S Elm St
Overland Park, KS — 4,500  29,105  38,441  8,230  63,816  19,060  2010 1988 6101 W 1 19th St(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:         
Overland Park, KS — 410 2,840  92 410 2,932  469 2015 2004 14430 Metcalf A ve
Overland Park, KS — 1,300  25,31 1 677 1,300  25,988  3,760  2016 2015 7600 Antioch Road
Owasso, OK — 215 1,380  — 215 1,380  866 1996 1996 12807 E. 86th Place N.
Owensboro, KY — 225 13,275  — 225 13,275  5,736  2005 1964 1205 Leitchfield Rd.
Owenton, KY — 100 2,400  — 100 2,400  1,206  2005 1979 905 Hwy . 127 N.
Palm Beach Gardens,
FL — 2,082  6,622  — 2,082  6,622  490 2018 1991 11375 Prosperity Farms Road
Palm Coast, FL — 870 10,957  102 870 11,059  3,352  2008 2010 50 Town Ct.
Palm Desert, CA — 6,195  8,918  — 6,195  8,918  599 2018 1989 74350 Country Club Drive
Palm Harbor , FL — 1,306  13,807  — 1,306  13,807  962 2018 1997 2895 T ampa Road
Palm Harbor , FL — 3,281  22,450  — 3,281  22,450  1,535  2018 1990 2851 T ampa Road
Palos Heights, IL — 1,225  12,453  — 1,225  12,453  795 2018 1999 7880 W est College Drive
Palos Heights, IL — 3,431  28,803  — 3,431  28,803  1,776  2018 1987 7850 W est College Drive
Palos Heights, IL — 2,590  7,644  — 2,590  7,644  490 2018 1996 11860 Southwest Hwy
Panama City Beach,
FL — 900 6,402  734 900 7,136  1,520  2011 2005 6012 Magnolia Beach Road
Paola, KS — 190 5,610  59 190 5,669  809 2015 2000 601 N. East Street
Parma, OH — 960 12,718  — 960 12,718  870 2018 1998 9205 Sprague Road
Parma, OH — 1,833  10,314  — 1,833  10,314  794 2018 2006 9055 W est Sprague Road
Paulsboro, NJ — 3,264  8,023  — 3,264  8,023  555 2018 1987 550 Jessup Road
Paw Paw , MI — — — 7,289  1,687  5,602  51 2020 2012 677 Hazen
Perrysbur g, OH — 1,456  5,431  — 1,456  5,431  379 2018 1973 10540 Fremont Pike
Perrysbur g, OH — 1,213  7,108  — 1,213  7,108  460 2018 1978 10542 Fremont Pike
Philadelphia, P A — 2,930  10,433  3,536  2,930  13,969  4,088  2011 1952 1526 Lombard Street
Phillipsbur g, NJ — 800 21,175  238 800 21,413  5,858  2011 1992 290 Red School Lane
Phillipsbur g, NJ — 300 8,114 101 300 8,215  2,249  2011 1905 843 W ilbur A venue
Pikesville, MD — — 2,487  — — 2,487  151 2018 1998 8911 Reisterstown Road
Pikesville, MD — 4,247  8,379  — 4,247  8,379  605 2018 1996 8909 Reisterstown Road
Pinehurst, NC — 290 2,690  521 290 3,211 1,535  2003 1998 17 Regional Dr .
Piqua, OH — 204 1,885  — 204 1,885  1,114 1997 1997 1744 W . High St.
Piscataway , NJ — 3,100  33,501  — 3,100  33,501  3,315  2013 2017 10 Sterling Drive
Pittsbur gh, P A — 603 11,354  — 603 11,354  772 2018 1998 1125 Perry Highway
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,005  15,160  — 1,005  15,160  992 2018 1997 505 W eyman Road
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,140  3,164  — 1,140  3,164  209 2018 1962 550 South Negley A venue
Pittsbur gh, P A — 994 3,789  — 994 3,789  356 2018 1986 2170 Rhine Street
Pittsbur gh, P A — 761 4,213  — 761 4,213  267 2018 1965 5609 Fifth A venue
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,480  9,712  — 1,480  9,712  718 2018 1986 1105 Perry Highway
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,139  5,844  — 1,139  5,844  423 2018 1986 1848 Greentree Road
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,750  8,572  6,320  1,750  14,892  4,061  2005 1998 100 Knoedler Rd.
Plainview , NY — 3,990  11,969  1,713  3,990  13,682  3,719  2011 1963 150 Sunnyside Blvd
Plano, TX — 1,840  20,152  560 1,840  20,712  2,802  2016 2016 3325 W Plano Parkway
Plattsmouth, NE — 250 5,650  — 250 5,650  1,694  2010 1999 1913 E. Highway 34
Poole, UK — 3,520  17,691  — 3,520  17,691  652 2019 2019 Kingsmill Road
Potomac, MD — 1,448  14,622  — 1,448  14,622  939 2018 1994 10718 Potomac T ennis Lane
Potomac, MD — 4,119 14,916  — 4,119 14,916  989 2018 1988 10714 Potomac T ennis Lane
Pottstown, P A — 984 4,563  — 984 4,563  325 2018 1907 724 North Charlotte Street
Pottsville, P A — 171 3,559  — 171 3,559  237 2018 1976 420 Pulaski Drive(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:         
Prior Lake, MN 13,320  1,870  29,849  300 1,870  30,149  3,983  2015 2003 4685 Park Nicollet A venue
Raleigh, NC — 7,598  88,870  904 7,598  89,774  8,796  2008 2017 4030 Cardinal at North Hills St
Raleigh, NC — 3,530  59,589  — 3,530  59,589  12,968  2012 2002 5301 Creedmoor Road
Raleigh, NC — 2,580  16,837  — 2,580  16,837  3,901  2012 1988 7900 Creedmoor Road
Reading, P A — 980 19,906  140 980 20,046  5,407  2011 1994 5501 Perkiomen A ve
Red Bank, NJ — 1,050  21,275  1,158  1,050  22,433  5,431  2011 1997 One Hartford Dr .
Redondo Beach, CA — — 9,557  711 — 10,268  7,787  2011 1957 514 North Prospect A ve
Reidsville, NC — 170 3,830  1,383  170 5,213  2,265  2002 1998 2931 V ance St.
Richardson, TX — 1,468  12,975  — 1,468  12,975  867 2018 1999 410 Buckingham Road
Richmond, IN — 700 14,222  393 700 14,615  2,142  2016 2015 400 Industries Road
Richmond, V A — 3,261  17,974  — 3,261  17,974  1,141  2018 1990 1719 Bellevue A venue
Richmond, V A — 1,046  8,233  — 1,046  8,233  559 2018 1966 2125 Hilliard Road
Roanoke, V A — 748 4,483  5 748 4,488  996 2018 1997 4355 Pheasant Ridge Rd
Rockford, MI — — — 15,932  2,386  13,546  85 2020 2014 6070 Northland Dr
Rockville Centre, NY — 4,290  20,310  1,379  4,290  21,689  5,552  2011 2002 260 Maple A ve
Rockwall, TX — 2,220  17,650  112 2,220  17,762  2,508  2012 2014 720 E Ralph Hall Parkway
Romeoville, IL — 1,895  — — 1,895  — — 2006 1900 Grand Haven Circle
Roseville, MN — 2,140  24,679  100 2,140  24,779  3,318  2015 1989 2750 North V ictoria Street
Rugeley , UK — 1,900  10,262  1,306  2,104  11,364  2,351  2013 2010 Horse Fair
Ruston, LA — 710 9,790  — 710 9,790  2,715  2011 1988 1401 Ezelle St
S Holland, IL — 1,423  8,907  — 1,423  8,907  609 2018 1997 2045 East 170th Street
Salem, OR — 449 5,171  1 449 5,172  2,949  1999 1998 1355 Boone Rd. S.E.
Salisbury , NC — 370 5,697  390 370 6,087  2,700  2003 1997 2201 Statesville Blvd.
San Angelo, TX — 260 8,800  425 260 9,225  3,797  2004 1997 2695 V alleyview Blvd.
San Angelo, TX — 1,050  24,689  1,361  1,050  26,050  4,374  2014 1999 6101 Grand Court Road
San Antonio, TX — 1,499  12,658  — 1,499  12,658  836 2018 2000 15290 Huebner Road
San Antonio, TX — — 17,303  — — 17,303  9,129  2007 2007 8902 Floyd Curl Dr .
San Diego, CA — — 22,003  1,845  — 23,848  7,260  2008 1992 555 W ashington St.
San Juan Capistrano,
CA — 1,390  6,942  1,506  1,390  8,448  3,880  2000 2001 3031 1 Camino Capistrano
Sand Springs, OK — 910 19,654  — 910 19,654  4,376  2012 2002 4402 South 129th A venue W est
Sandusky , MI — — — 7,706  967 6,739  45 2020 2008 70 W . Argyle A ve
Sarasota, FL — 475 3,175  — 475 3,175  2,064  1996 1995 8450 McIntosh Rd.
Sarasota, FL — 4,101  11,204  — 4,101  11,204  1,190  2018 1993 5401 Sawyer Road
Sarasota, FL — 1,370  4,082  — 1,370  4,082  278 2018 1968 3250 12th Street
Sarasota, FL — 2,792  11,173  — 2,792  11,173  737 2018 1993 5511 Swift Road
Sarasota, FL — 3,360  19,140  — 3,360  19,140  4,684  2011 2006 6150 Edgelake Drive
Sarasota, FL — 443 8,892  — 443 8,892  649 2018 1998 5509 Swift Road
Scranton, P A — 440 17,609  — 440 17,609  3,029  2014 2005 2741 Blvd. A ve
Scranton, P A — 320 12,144  1 320 12,145  2,082  2014 2013 2751 Boulevard A ve
Seminole, FL — 1,165  8,975  — 1,165  8,975  634 2018 1998 9300 Antilles Drive
Seven Fields, P A — 484 4,663  59 484 4,722  2,695  1999 1999 500 Seven Fields Blvd.
Sewell, NJ — 3,127  14,090  — 3,127  14,090  1,059  2018 2010 378 Fries Mill Road
Shawnee, OK — 80 1,400  — 80 1,400  903 1996 1995 3947 Kickapoo
Shelbyville, KY — 630 3,870  630 630 4,500  1,789  2005 1965 1871 Midland T rail
Silver Spring, MD — 1,469  10,392  — 1,469  10,392  687 2018 1995 2505 Musgrove Road(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:         
Silver Spring, MD — 4,678  11,679  — 4,678  11,679  823 2018 1990 2501 Musgrove Road
Silvis, IL — 880 16,420  139 880 16,559  4,580  2010 2005 1900 10th St.
Sinking Spring, P A — 1,393  19,842  — 1,393  19,842  1,296  2018 1982 3000 W indmill Road
Sittingbourne, UK — 1,357  6,539  848 1,503  7,241  1,142  2014 1997 200 London Road
Smithfield, NC — 290 5,680  508 290 6,188  2,632  2003 1998 830 Berkshire Rd.
Smithfield, NC — 360 8,216  — 360 8,216  1,408  2014 1999 250 Highway 210 W est
South Bend, IN — 670 17,770  — 670 17,770  3,176  2014 2014 52565 State Road 933
South Point, OH — 1,135  9,387  — 1,135  9,387  614 2018 1984 7743 County Road 1
Southampton, UK — 1,519  16,041  1,250  1,627  17,183  1,506  2017 2013 Botley Road, Park Gate
Southbury , CT — 1,860  23,613  958 1,860  24,571  6,218  2011 2001 655 Main St
Spokane, W A — 2,649  11,699  — 2,649  11,699  774 2018 1985 6025 North Assembly Street
Springfield, IL — 990 13,378  1,085  990 14,463  2,536  2014 2013 3089 Old Jacksonville Road
St. Louis, MO — 1,890  12,390  837 1,890  13,227  3,365  2010 1963 6543 Chippewa St
St. Paul, MN — 2,100  33,019  100 2,100  33,119 4,396  2015 1996 750 Mississippi River
Stafford, UK — 2,009  8,238  730 2,152  8,825  1,009  2014 2016 Stone Road
Stamford, UK — 1,820  3,238  543 2,015  3,586  603 2014 1998 Priory Road
Statesville, NC — 150 1,447  377 150 1,824  827 2003 1990 2441 E. Broad St.
Statesville, NC — 310 6,183  164 310 6,347  2,811 2003 1996 2806 Peachtree Place
Statesville, NC — 140 3,627  53 140 3,680  1,676  2003 1999 2814 Peachtree Rd.
Staunton, V A — 899 6,391  6 899 6,397  1,153  2018 1999 1410 N Augusta St
Sterling Heights, MI — 790 10,784  — 790 10,784  718 2018 1996 11095 East Fourteen Mile Road
Sterling Heights, MI — 1,583  15,634  — 1,583  15,634  1,057  2018 2013 38200 Schoenherr Road
Stillwater , OK — 80 1,400  — 80 1,400  905 1995 1995 1616 McElroy Rd.
Stratford-upon-A von,
UK — 790 14,508  1,643  874 16,067  2,370  2015 2012 Scholars Lane
Stroudsbur g, PA — 340 16,313  — 340 16,313  3,143  2014 2011 370 Whitestone Corner Road
Sunbury , PA — 695 7,244  — 695 7,244  463 2018 1981 800 Court Street Circle
Sunnyvale, CA — 4,946  22,123  — 4,946  22,123  1,408  2018 1990 1150 T ilton Drive
Superior , WI — 1,020  13,735  6,159  1,020  19,894  4,005  2009 2010 1915 North 34th Street
Tacoma, W A — 2,522  8,573  — 2,522  8,573  558 2018 1984 5601 South Orchard Southtreet
Tampa, FL — 1,315  6,911 — 1,315  6,911 531 2018 1999 14950 Casey Road
Terre Haute, IN — 1,370  18,016  — 1,370  18,016  2,990  2015 2015 395 8th A venue
Texarkana, TX — 192 1,403  — 192 1,403  880 1996 1996 4204 Moores Lane
The V illages, FL — 1,035  7,446  — 1,035  7,446  1,551  2013 2014 2450 Parr Drive
Thomasville, GA — 530 12,520  1,347  530 13,867  2,766  2011 2006 423 Covington A venue
Three Rivers, MI — 1,255  2,760  — 1,255  2,760  241 2018 1976 517 South Erie Southtreet
Tomball, TX — 1,050  13,300  840 1,050  14,140  3,538  2011 2001 1221 Graham Dr
Toms River , NJ — 3,466  23,31 1 — 3,466  23,31 1 1,742  2019 2006 1657 Silverton Rd
Tonganoxie, KS — 310 3,690  76 310 3,766  593 2015 2009 120 W 8th St
Topeka, KS — 260 12,712  — 260 12,712  2,923  2012 2011 1931 Southwest Arvonia Place
Towson, MD — 1,715  13,111 — 1,715  13,111 865 2018 2000 8101 Bellona A venue
Towson, MD — 3,100  6,465  — 3,100  6,465  408 2018 1960 509 East Joppa Road
Towson, MD — 4,527  3,126  — 4,527  3,126  249 2018 1970 7001 North Charles Street
Troy, MI — 1,381  24,445  — 1,381  24,445  1,543  2018 2006 925 W est South Boulevard
Troy, OH — 200 2,000  4,254  200 6,254  2,513  1997 1997 81 S. Stanfield Rd.
Trumbull, CT — 4,440  43,384  — 4,440  43,384  11,166  2011 2001 6949 Main Street(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:         
Tulsa, OK — 1,390  7,110 1,102  1,390  8,212  2,542  2010 1998 7220 S. Y ale A ve.
Tulsa, OK — 1,320  10,087  — 1,320  10,087  2,417  2011 2012 7902 South Mingo Road East
Tulsa, OK — 1,100  27,007  2,233  1,100  29,240  3,182  2015 2017 18001 East 51st Street
Tulsa, OK 12,935  1,752  28,421  — 1,752  28,421  2,830  2017 2014 701 W 71st Street South
Tulsa, OK — 890 9,410  — 890 9,410  836 2017 2009 7210 South Y ale A venue
Tustin, CA — 840 15,299  537 840 15,836  4,448  2011 1965 240 East 3rd St
Twinsbur g, OH — 1,446  5,919  — 1,446  5,919  432 2018 2014 8551 Darrow Road
Union, KY — — — 33,617  2,242  31,375  558 2018 2020 9255 US-42
Union, SC — 1,932  2,372  — 1,932  2,372  242 2018 1981 709 Rice A venue
Valparaiso, IN — 112 2,558  — 112 2,558  1,326  2001 1998 2601 V alparaiso St.
Valparaiso, IN — 108 2,962  — 108 2,962  1,519  2001 1999 2501 V alparaiso St.
Vancouver , WA — 2,503  28,393  — 2,503  28,393  1,777  2018 2011 2811 N.E. 139th Street
Venice, FL — 1,150  10,674  111 1,150  10,785  3,324  2008 2009 1600 Center Rd.
Venice, FL — 2,246  10,094  — 2,246  10,094  710 2018 1997 1450 East V enice A venue
Vero Beach, FL — 263 3,187  — 263 3,187  1,626  2001 1999 420 4th Ct.
Vero Beach, FL — 297 3,263  — 297 3,263  1,673  2001 1996 410 4th Ct.
Virginia Beach, V A — 1,540  22,593  — 1,540  22,593  3,925  2014 1993 5520 Indian River Rd
Voorhees, NJ — 1,800  37,299  671 1,800  37,970  10,209  2011 1965 2601 Evesham Road
Voorhees, NJ — 3,100  25,950  26 3,100  25,976  6,004  2011 2013 113 South Route 73
Voorhees, NJ — 2,193  6,990  — 2,193  6,990  511 2018 2006 1086 Dumont Circle
W Palm Beach, FL — 1,175  8,294  — 1,175  8,294  595 2018 1996 2330 V illage Boulevard
W Palm Beach, FL — 1,921  5,731  — 1,921  5,731  397 2018 1996 2300 V illage Boulevard
Wabash, IN — 670 14,588  1 670 14,589  2,713  2014 2013 20 John Kissinger Drive
Waconia, MN — 890 14,726  4,495  890 19,221  4,592  2011 2005 500 Cherry Street
Wake Forest, NC — 200 3,003  2,084  200 5,087  2,531  1998 1999 611 S. Brooks St.
Wallingford, P A — 1,356  6,487  — 1,356  6,487  483 2018 1930 115 South Providence Road
Walnut Creek, CA — 4,358  18,407  — 4,358  18,407  1,202  2018 1997 1975 T ice V alley Boulevard
Walnut Creek, CA — 5,394  39,084  — 5,394  39,084  2,426  2018 1990 1226 Rossmoor Parkway
Walsall, UK — 1,184  8,562  1,047  1,312  9,481  1,481  2015 2015 Little Aston Road
Wamego, KS — 40 2,510  57 40 2,567  372 2015 1996 1607 4th St
Wareham, MA — 875 10,313  1,701  875 12,014  6,070  2002 1989 50 Indian Neck Rd.
Warren, NJ — 2,000  30,810  1,337  2,000  32,147  7,798  2011 1999 274 King Geor ge Rd
Waterloo, IA — 605 3,030  — 605 3,030  218 2018 1964 201 W est Ridgeway A venue
Wayne, NJ — 1,427  15,674  — 1,427  15,674  1,301  2018 1998 800 Hambur g Turnpike
Wellingborough, UK — 1,480  5,724  774 1,639  6,339  1,102  2015 2015 159 Northampton
West Bend, WI — 620 17,790  38 620 17,828  4,256  2010 2011 2130 Continental Dr
West Des Moines, IA — 828 5,103  — 828 5,103  372 2018 2006 5010 Grand Ridge Drive
West Milford, NJ — 1,960  24,614  — 1,960  24,614  1,406  2019 2000 197 Cahill Cross Road
West Orange, NJ — 1,347  19,389  — 1,347  19,389  1,507  2018 1998 510 Prospect A venue
West Reading, P A — 890 12,118 — 890 12,118 749 2018 1975 425 Buttonwood Street
Westerville, OH — 740 8,287  4,146  740 12,433  10,835  1998 2001 690 Cooper Rd.
Westerville, OH — — — 25,574  2,566  23,008  194 2017 2020 702 Polaris Parkway
Westerville, OH — 1,420  5,371  — 1,420  5,371  369 2018 1982 1060 Eastwind Drive
Westerville, OH — 1,582  10,279  — 1,582  10,279  719 2018 1980 215 Huber V illage Boulevard
Westfield, IN — 890 15,964  1 890 15,965  2,943  2014 2013 937 E. 186th Street(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:         
Westlake, OH — 855 11,963  — 855 11,963  805 2018 1997 28400 Center Ridge Road
Weston Super Mare,
UK — 2,517  7,054  1,028  2,787  7,812  1,535  2013 2011 141b Milton Road
Wheaton, MD — 3,864  3,788  — 3,864  3,788  270 2018 1961 11901 Geor gia A venue
Whippany , NJ — 1,571  14,977  — 1,571  14,977  1,014  2018 2000 18 Eden Lane
Whitehall, MI — — — 8,434  1,645  6,789  54 2020 2012 6827 Whitehall Rd
Wichita, KS — 1,400  11,000  — 1,400  11,000  5,732  2006 1997 505 North Maize Road
Wichita, KS — 860 8,873  — 860 8,873  2,323  2011 2012 10604 E 13th Street North
Wichita, KS 12,300  630 19,747  — 630 19,747  4,352  2012 2009 2050 North W ebb Road
Wichita, KS — 260 2,240  129 260 2,369  346 2015 1992 900 N Bayshore Dr
Wichita, KS — 900 10,134  — 900 10,134  2,504  2011 2012 10600 E 13th Street North
Wilkes-Barre, P A — 570 2,301  686 570 2,987  1,035  2011 1992 300 Courtright Street
Wilkes-Barre, P A — 753 3,456  — 753 3,456  272 2018 1970 1548 Sans Souci Parkway
Williamsbur g, VA — 1,187  5,728  6 1,187  5,734  1,069  2018 2000 1811 Jamestown Rd
Williamsport, P A — 919 6,924  — 919 6,924  468 2018 1976 300 Leader Drive
Williamsport, P A — 780 1,898  — 780 1,898  170 2018 1972 101 Leader Drive
Williamstown, KY — 70 6,430  — 70 6,430  2,797  2005 1987 201 Kimberly Lane
Willoughby , OH — 1,774  8,653  — 1,774  8,653  592 2018 1974 37603 Euclid A venue
Wilmington, DE — 800 9,494  114 800 9,608  2,769  2011 1970 810 S Broom Street
Wilmington, DE — 1,376  13,450  — 1,376  13,450  892 2018 1998 700 1/2 Foulk Road
Wilmington, DE — 2,843  36,948  — 2,843  36,948  2,356  2018 1988 5651 Limestone Road
Wilmington, DE — 2,266  9,500  — 2,266  9,500  647 2018 1984 700 Foulk Road
Wilmington, NC — 210 2,991  — 210 2,991  1,701  1999 1999 3501 Converse Dr .
Wilmington, NC — 400 15,355  — 400 15,355  2,759  2014 2012 3828 Independence Blvd
Windsor , VA — 1,148  6,514  7 1,148  6,521  1,213  2018 1999 23352 Courthouse Hwy
Winston-Salem, NC — 360 2,514  509 360 3,023  1,406  2003 1996 2980 Reynolda Rd.
Winter Garden, FL — 1,110 7,937  — 1,110 7,937  1,855  2012 2013 720 Roper Road
Winter Springs, FL — 1,152  14,822  — 1,152  14,822  972 2018 1999 1057 W illa Springs Drive
Witherwack, UK — 944 6,915  844 1,045  7,658  1,506  2013 2009 Whitchurch Road
Wolverhampton, UK — 1,573  6,678  886 1,742  7,395  1,467  2013 2011 378 Prestonwood Road
Woodbury , MN — 1,317  20,935  298 1,317  21,233  2,275  2017 2015 2195 Century A venue South
Woodstock, V A — 594 5,108  5 594 5,113 850 2018 2001 803 S Main St
Worcester , MA — 3,500  54,099  — 3,500  54,099  15,931  2007 2009 101 Barry Road
Worcester , MA — 2,300  9,060  6,000  2,300  15,060  5,708  2008 1993 378 Plantation St.
Yardley , PA — 773 14,914  — 773 14,914  1,035  2018 1995 493 Stony Hill Road
Yardley , PA — 1,561  9,439  — 1,561  9,439  779 2018 1990 1480 Oxford V alley Road
Yeadon, P A — 1,075  10,690  — 1,075  10,690  681 2018 1963 14 Lincoln A venue
York, P A — 976 9,354  — 976 9,354  631 2018 1972 200 Pauline Drive
York, P A — 1,050  4,210  — 1,050  4,210  336 2018 1983 2400 Kingston Court
York, P A — 1,121  7,584  — 1,121  7,584  546 2018 1979 1770 Barley Road
York, UK — 2,961  8,266  1,206  3,279  9,154  1,509  2014 2006 Rosetta W ay, Boroughbridge Road
Youngsville, NC — 380 10,689  — 380 10,689  1,870  2014 2013 100 Sunset Drive
Zephyrhills, FL — 2,131  6,669  — 2,131  6,669  505 2018 1987 38220 Henry Drive
Zionsville, IN — 1,610  22,400  1,691  1,610  24,091  6,410  2010 2009 11755 N Michigan Rd
Triple-net T otal $ 123,652  $ 905,073  $ 7,397,004  $ 596,731  $ 957,163  $ 7,941,645  $ 1,432,228  (1)
117
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2020  
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Addison, IL $ 5,455  $ 102 $ 18,842  $ 137 $ 102 $ 18,979  $ 1,151  2018 2012 303 W est Lake Street
Agawam, MA — 1,072  5,164  4 1,072  5,168  296 2019 2005 230-232 Main Street
Allen, TX — 726 14,196  1,402  726 15,598  5,901  2012 2006 1105 N Central Expressway
Alpharetta, GA — 1,862  — — 1,862  — — 2011 1900 940 North Point Parkway
Alpharetta, GA — 773 18,902  642 773 19,544  7,940  2011 1993 3400-A Old Milton Parkway
Alpharetta, GA — 1,769  36,152  460 1,769  36,612  16,249  2011 1999 3400-C Old Milton Parkway
Alpharetta, GA — 476 14,694  323 476 15,017  6,282  2011 2003 11975 Morris Road
Alpharetta, GA — 548 17,103  826 548 17,929  7,230  2011 2007 3300 Old Milton Parkway
Appleton, WI 6,897  1,881  8,866  7 1,881  8,873  399 2019 2004 5320 W Michael Drive
Appleton, WI 12,112 3,782  20,440  15 3,782  20,455  888 2019 2005 2323 N Casaloma Drive
Arcadia, CA — 5,408  23,219  5,506  5,618  28,515  12,940  2006 1984 301 W . Huntington Drive
Arlington, TX — 82 18,243  572 82 18,815  5,040  2012 2012 902 W . Randol Mill Road
Arlington Heights, IL — 1,233  2,826  623 1,233  3,449  243 2020 1997 1632 W . Central Road
Atlanta, GA — 1,947  24,248  2,465  2,172  26,488  9,774  2012 1984 975 Johnson Ferry Road
Atlanta, GA — — 43,425  1,841  — 45,266  15,310  2012 2006 5670 Peachtree-Dunwoody Road
Atlanta, GA — 4,931  18,720  7,261  5,387  25,525  13,575  2006 1991 755 Mt. V ernon Hwy .
Austin, TX — 1,066  10,112 — 1,066  10,112 1,354  2017 2017 5301-B Davis Lane
Austin, TX — 1,688  6,784  — 1,688  6,784  613 2019 2015 5301-A Davis Lane
Baltimore, MD — 4,490  31,222  22 4,490  31,244  1,169  2019 2014 1420 Key Highway
Bellaire, TX — 5,572  72,478  6 5,572  72,484  3,576  2019 2007 5410 - 5420 WEST LOOP SOUTH
Bellevue, NE — — 16,680  10 — 16,690  6,415  2010 2010 2510 Bellevue Medical Center Drive
Bend, OR — 16,516  30,338  3 16,516  30,341  2,248  2019 2001 1501 Northeast Medical Center Drive
Berkeley Heights, NJ — 49,555  92,806  — 49,555  92,806  4,457  2019 1978 1 Diamond Hill Road
Beverly Hills, CA — 20,766  40,730  3,508  20,766  44,238  9,079  2015 1946 9675 Brighton W ay
Beverly Hills, CA — 18,863  1,192  481 18,885  1,651  860 2015 1955 415 North Bedford
Beverly Hills, CA — 19,863  31,690  1,996  19,863  33,686  6,519  2015 1946 416 North Bedford
Beverly Hills, CA 33,729  32,603  28,639  1,182  32,603  29,821  7,056  2015 1950 435 North Bedford
Beverly Hills, CA 78,272  52,772  87,366  2,111 52,764  89,485  16,264  2015 1989 436 North Bedford
Boca Raton, FL — 109 34,002  4,320  214 38,217  16,237  2006 1995 9970 S. Central Park Blvd.
Boca Raton, FL — 31 12,312  497 251 12,589  4,486  2012 1993 9960 S. Central Park Boulevard
Bridgeton, MO — 450 21,221  1,917  450 23,138  8,603  2010 2006 12266 DePaul Dr
Bridgeton, MO — 1,701  6,228  254 1,501  6,682  1,370  2017 2008 3440 De Paul Ln.
Burleson, TX — 10 12,61 1 933 10 13,544  5,196  2011 2007 12001 South Freeway
Burnsville, MN — — 31,596  2,272  — 33,868  10,455  2013 2014 14101 Fairview Dr
Cary , NC — 2,816  11,146  349 2,816  11,495  1,268  2019 2007 540 W averly Place
Cedar Park, TX — 132 23,753  6,338  132 30,091  5,076  2017 2014 1401 Medical Parkway , Building 2
Chapel Hill, NC — 488 2,390  1 488 2,391  165 2019 2010 100 Perkins Drive(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Chapel Hill, NC 5,050  1,970  8,874  84 1,970  8,958  819 2018 2007 6011 Farrington Road
Chapel Hill, NC 5,050  1,970  8,925  5 1,970  8,930  924 2018 2007 6013 Farrington Road
Chapel Hill, NC 14,356  5,681  25,035  15 5,681  25,050  2,386  2018 2006 2226 North Carolina Highway 54
Charlotte, NC — 10 24,796  86 10 24,882  2,652  2019 1971 1900 Randolph Road
Charlotte, NC — 30 61,799  3,036  30 64,835  6,134  2019 1994 1918 Randolph Road
Charlotte, NC — 40 40,606  1,259  40 41,865  3,884  2019 1989 1718 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, NC — 1,746  8,645  609 1,746  9,254  1,197  2019 1998 309 South Sharon Amity Road
Chicopee, MA — 6,078  15,842  102 6,078  15,944  973 2019 2005 444 Montgomery Street
Chula V ista, CA — 1,045  22,252  372 1,045  22,624  2,201  2019 1973 480 4th A venue
Chula V ista, CA — 826 5,557  368 826 5,925  590 2019 1985 450 4th A venue
Chula V ista, CA — 1,114 15,459  1 1,114 15,460  965 2019 2008 971 Lane A ve
Chula V ista, CA — 1,075  7,165  1 1,075  7,166  452 2019 2006 959 Lane A ve
Cincinnati, OH — 537 10,122  187 537 10,309  1,039  2019 2001 4850 Red Bank Expressway
Cincinnati, OH — — 17,880  287 2 18,165  4,948  2012 2013 3301 Mercy Health Boulevard
Clarkson V alley , MO — — 35,592  — — 35,592  15,581  2009 2010 15945 Clayton Rd
Clear Lake, TX — — 13,882  20 2,319  11,583  1,835  2013 2014 1010 South Ponds Drive
Clyde, NC — 1,433  22,062  2 1,433  22,064  1,087  2019 2012 581 Leroy Geor ge Drive
Columbia, MO — 438 12,949  58 438 13,007  1,536  2019 1994 1601 E. Broadway
Columbia, MO — 488 16,033  524 488 16,557  1,702  2019 1999 1605 E. Broadway
Columbia, MO — 199 23,403  14 199 23,417  2,095  2019 2007 1705 E. Broadway
Columbia, MD — 23 33,885  3,227  9,353  27,782  10,012  2015 1982 5450 & 5500 Knoll N Dr .
Columbia, MD — 2,333  19,232  1,884  2,333  21,116 6,749  2012 2002 10700 Charter Drive
Columbia, MD — 12,159  72,636  595 12,159  73,231  6,135  2018 2009 10710 Charter Drive
Coon Rapids, MN — — 26,679  1,320  — 27,999  7,677  2013 2014 11850 Blackfoot Street NW
Costa Mesa, CA 20,41 1 22,033  24,332  1,087  22,033  25,419  5,963  2017 2007 1640 Newport Boulevard
Dade City , FL — 1,211 5,511 — 1,211 5,511 1,873  2011 1998 13413 US Hwy 301
Dallas, TX — 122 15,418  10 122 15,428  2,914  2013 2014 8196 W alnut Hill Lane
Dallas, TX — 6,086  18,007  3,581  6,542  21,132  2,397  2018 2010 10740 North Central Expressway
Deerfield Beach, FL — 2,408  7,809  793 2,540  8,470  3,859  2011 2001 1192 East Newport Center Drive
Delray Beach, FL — 1,882  34,767  1,889  2,449  36,089  19,241  2006 1985 5130-5150 Linton Blvd.
Dunkirk, MD — 259 2,458  33 259 2,491  321 2019 1997 10845 T own Center Blvd
Durham, NC — 1,403  25,163  2 1,403  25,165  1,493  2019 2000 120 W illiam Penn Plaza
Durham, NC — 1,751  44,425  3 1,751  44,428  2,166  2019 2004 3916 Ben Fanklin Boulevard
El Paso, TX — 677 17,075  1,633  677 18,708  9,338  2006 1997 2400 T rawood Dr .
Elgin, IL — 1,634  9,443  1,355  1,634  10,798  558 2020 2004 745 Fletcher Drive
Elmhurst, IL — 41 39,562  259 41 39,821  3,245  2018 2011 133 E Brush Hill Road
Elyria, OH — 3,263  28,176  3 3,263  28,179  1,772  2019 2008 303 Chestnut Commons Drive
Escondido, CA — 2,278  20,967  2 2,278  20,969  1,449  2019 1994 225 East 2nd A venue
Everett, W A — 4,842  26,010  64 4,842  26,074  9,697  2010 2011 13020 Meridian A ve. S.
Fenton, MO — 958 27,461  132 958 27,593  9,230  2013 2009 1011 Bowles A venue
Fenton, MO — 369 13,91 1 198 369 14,109  3,931  2013 2009 1055 Bowles A venue
Florham Park, NJ — 8,578  61,779  — 8,578  61,779  5,858  2017 2017 150 Park A venue
Flower Mound, TX — 4,620  — — 4,620  — — 2014 1900 Medical Arts Drive(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Flower Mound, TX — 737 9,276  429 737 9,705  2,336  2015 2014 2560 Central Park A venue
Flower Mound, TX — 4,164  27,027  1,414  4,164  28,441  7,366  2014 2012 4370 Medical Arts Drive
Fort W ashington, P A — 2,015  16,104  2,040  2,015  18,144  731 2020 1980 467 Pennsylvania A venue
Fort W orth, TX — 401 5,266  2,752  2,805  5,614  1,800  2014 2007 7200 Oakmont Boulevard
Fort W orth, TX — 462 26,020  205 462 26,225  7,049  2012 2012 10840 T exas Health T rail
Frederick, MD — 1,065  7,430  — 1,065  7,430  721 2019 1979 194 Thomas Johnson Drive
Frederick, MD — 1,930  18,748  195 1,930  18,943  1,822  2019 2006 45 Thomas Johnson Drive
Fresno, CA — 1,497  12,669  8 1,497  12,677  601 2019 2004 1105 E Spruce A ve
Frisco, TX — — 18,635  235 — 18,870  7,881  2007 2004 4401 Coit Road
Frisco, TX — — 15,309  2,588  — 17,897  7,619  2007 2004 4461 Coit Road
Gardendale, AL 4,184  1,150  8,162  231 1,150  8,393  880 2018 2005 2217 Decatur Highway
Garland, TX — 4,952  32,718  — 4,952  32,718  2,392  2019 2018 7217 T elecome Parkway
Gastonia, NC — 569 1,092  615 569 1,707  70 2019 2000 934 Cox Road
Gig Harbor , WA — 80 30,810  1,332  80 32,142  6,057  2010 2009 11511 Canterwood Blvd. NW
Glendale, CA — 70 44,354  163 70 44,517  2,749  2019 2008 1500 E Chevy Chase Drive
Gloucester , VA — 2,128  9,169  40 2,128  9,209  947 2018 2008 5659 Parkway Drive
Grand Prairie, TX — 981 6,086  — 981 6,086  2,702  2012 2009 2740 N State Hwy 360
Grapevine, TX — — 5,943  4,778  2,081  8,640  2,405  2014 2002 2040 W State Hwy 1 14
Grapevine, TX — 3,365  15,669  3,089  3,365  18,758  5,311 2014 2002 2020 W State Hwy 1 14
Greenville, SC — 1,567  5,167  585 1,790  5,529  1,192  2019 1987 10 Enterprise Boulevard
Harrisbur g, NC — 1,347  3,059  — 1,347  3,059  395 2019 2012 9550 Rocky River Road
Hattiesbur g, MS 17,633  3,155  34,710  23 3,155  34,733  1,472  2019 2012 3688 V eterans Memorial Drive
Haymarket, V A — 1,250  29,254  57 1,250  29,31 1 1,962  2019 2008 15195 Heathcote Blvd
Henderson, NV — 2,587  5,654  1 2,587  5,655  381 2019 2002 2825 Siena Heights Drive
Henderson, NV — 7,372  24,027  42 7,372  24,069  1,953  2019 2005 2845 Siena Heights Drive
Henderson, NV — 5,492  18,718  214 5,492  18,932  1,303  2019 2005 2865 Siena Heights Drive
Highland, IL — — 8,834  51 — 8,885  2,197  2012 2013 12860 T roxler A venue
Hopewell Junction, NY — 2,164  5,333  9 2,164  5,342  230 2019 1999 10 Cranberry Drive
Hopewell Junction, NY — 2,316  5,332  5 2,316  5,337  209 2019 2015 1955 NY -52
Houston, TX — 9,943  — — 9,943  — 9 2011 1900 F.M. 1960 & Northgate Forest Dr .
Houston, TX — 2,988  18,018  365 2,988  18,383  499 2016 2019 13105 W ortham Center Drive
Houston, TX — 5,837  33,109  1,370  5,837  34,479  14,193  2012 2005 15655 Cypress W oods Medical Dr .
Houston, TX — 3,688  13,313  132 3,688  13,445  4,530  2012 2007 10701 V intage Preserve Parkway
Houston, TX — 1,099  1,604  81,406  12,815  71,294  19,648  2012 1998 2727 W Holcombe Boulevard
Houston, TX 3,644  377 13,660  583 377 14,243  1,494  2018 2011 20207 Chasewood Park Drive
Houston, TX — — — 10,607  2,338  8,269  — 2020 2013 11476 Space Center Blvd
Howell, MI — 2,000  13,928  805 2,000  14,733  2,146  2016 2017 1225 South Latson Road
Humble, TX — — 9,941  — 1,702  8,239  1,270  2013 2014 8233 N. Sam Houston Parkway E.
Huntersville, NC — — 42,143  60 — 42,203  3,328  2019 2004 10030 Gilead Road
Independence, MO — 762 3,480  333 762 3,813  158 2020 2007 19401 East 37th T errace Court South
Jackson, MI — 668 17,294  — 668 17,294  5,519  2013 2009 1201 E Michigan A venue
Jacksonville, FL — 3,562  27,249  56 3,562  27,305  2,171  2019 2006 10475 Centurion Parkway North
Jacksonville, FL — 1,113 10,970  1,082  1,113 12,052  539 2020 2000 5742 Booth Road(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Jefferson City , TN — 109 16,453  3 109 16,456  1,366  2019 2001 120 Hospital Drive
Jonesboro, GA — 567 16,329  1 567 16,330  1,304  2019 2009 7813 Spivey Station Boulevard
Jonesboro, GA — 627 16,554  70 627 16,624  1,224  2019 2007 7823 Spivey Station Boulevard
Jupiter , FL — 2,252  11,415  4,992  2,639  16,020  6,960  2006 2001 550 Heritage Dr .
Jupiter , FL — 2,825  5,858  1,367  3,036  7,014  3,555  2007 2004 600 Heritage Dr .
Katy , TX — — 11,530  — — 11,530  145 2019 20200 Grand Parkway & Morton Ranch
Road
Katy , TX — 2,025  7,557  1,255  2,025  8,812  325 2020 2016 21502 Merchants W ay
Katy , TX — 3,699  12,701  1,668  3,699  14,369  961 2020 2006 1331 W est Grand Parkway North
Knoxville, TN — 199 45,961  3 199 45,964  2,713  2019 2012 1926 Alcoa Highway
La Jolla, CA — 12,855  32,658  1,932  12,869  34,576  8,509  2015 1989 4150 Regents Park Row
La Jolla, CA — 9,425  26,525  627 9,440  27,137  5,951  2015 1988 4120 & 4130 La Jolla V illage Drive
Lacey , WA 6,402  1,751  10,345  — 1,751  10,345  1,061  2018 1971 2555 Marvin Road Northeast
Lake St Louis, MO — 240 14,249  337 240 14,586  5,879  2010 2008 400 Medical Dr
Lakeway , TX — 2,801  — — 2,801  — — 2007 1900 Lohmans Crossing Road
Las V egas, NV — 433 4,928  — 433 4,928  2,222  2007 1997 1776 E. W arm Springs Rd.
Las V egas, NV — 2,319  4,612  1,602  2,319  6,214  3,160  2006 1991 2870 S. Maryland Pkwy .
Las V egas, NV — 4,180  20,064  2,913  4,180  22,977  823 2020 2017 9880 W est Flamingo Road
Las V egas, NV — 5,864  22,502  3,070  5,864  25,572  858 2020 2017 4980 W est Sahara A ve
Little Rock, AR — 3,021  16,058  5,944  3,021  22,002  1,091  2019 2014 6119 Midtown A venue
Los Alamitos, CA — 39 18,340  24 39 18,364  7,584  2007 2003 3771 Katella A ve.
Lowell, MA — 3,016  9,663  — 3,016  9,663  303 2011 2020 839 Merrimack Street
Loxahatchee, FL — 1,637  5,048  1,324  1,719  6,290  3,141  2006 1997 12977 Southern Blvd.
Loxahatchee, FL — 1,340  6,509  1,526  1,440  7,935  3,801  2006 1993 12989 Southern Blvd.
Loxahatchee, FL — 1,553  4,694  1,938  1,650  6,535  3,171  2006 1994 12983 Southern Blvd.
Lubbock, TX 42,233  2,286  72,893  46 2,286  72,939  2,457  2019 2006 4515 Marsha Sharp Freeway
Lynbrook, NY 26,580  10,028  37,319  1,069  10,028  38,388  3,297  2018 1962 444 Merrick Road
Madison, WI — 3,670  28,329  55 3,670  28,384  1,679  2019 2012 1102 South Park Street
Margate, FL — 219 9,293  3 219 9,296  992 2019 2004 2960 N. State Rd 7
Marietta, GA — 2,682  20,053  1,516  2,703  21,548  4,727  2016 2016 4800 Olde T owne Parkway
Mars, P A — 1,925  8,307  1,132  1,925  9,439  492 2020 2006 6998 Crider Road
Matthews, NC — 10 32,741  571 10 33,312  2,528  2019 1994 1450 Matthews T ownship Parkway
Menasha, WI — 1,374  13,861  2,967  1,345  16,857  3,578  2016 1994 1550 Midway Place
Merced, CA — — 13,772  1,164  — 14,936  6,008  2009 2010 315 Mercy A ve.
Meridian, ID — 3,206  27,107  18 3,206  27,125  1,588  2019 2009 3277 E Louise Drive
Mesa, AZ — 3,158  5,588  1,122  3,158  6,710  218 2020 2016 1910 S. Gilbert Road
Mesa, AZ — 3,889  5,816  1,257  3,889  7,073  247 2020 2016 1833 N. Power Road
Mission Hills, CA 22,797  — 42,276  6,914  4,791  44,399  12,014  2014 1986 11550 Indian Hills Road
Missouri City , TX — 1,360  7,143  — 1,360  7,143  774 2015 2016 7010 Highway 6
Mobile, AL 15,447  2,759  25,180  13 2,759  25,193  1,980  2018 2003 6144 Airport Boulevard
Monroeville, P A — 1,544  10,012  1,075  1,544  11,087  721 2020 1979 2550 Mosside Blvd
Moorestown, NJ — 6 50,896  918 362 51,458  16,887  2011 2012 401 Young A venue
Mount Juliet, TN — 1,566  11,697  1,878  1,601  13,540  6,467  2007 2005 5002 Crossings Circle
Mount Kisco, NY — 12,632  51,220  38 12,632  51,258  1,877  2019 1996 90 - 1 10 South Bedford Road(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Mount V ernon, IL — — 24,892  144 — 25,036  8,362  2011 2012 2 Good Samaritan W ay
Murrieta, CA — 3,800  — — 3,800  — — 2014 1900 28078 Baxter Rd.
Murrieta, CA — — 47,190  301 — 47,491  22,793  2010 2011 28078 Baxter Rd.
Myrtle Beach, SC — 1,357  3,658  72 1,357  3,730  850 2019 1996 8170 Rourk Street
Nampa, ID 15,675  3,439  21,566  15 3,439  21,581  832 2019 2017 1510 12th A venue
Newbur gh, NY — 9,213  32,354  25 9,213  32,379  1,041  2019 2015 1200 NY -300
Newburyport, MA — 3,104  19,370  74 3,104  19,444  1,502  2019 2008 One W allace Bashaw Jr . Way
Niagara Falls, NY — 1,433  10,891  545 1,721  11,148  6,612  2007 1995 6932 - 6934 W illiams Rd
Niagara Falls, NY — 454 8,362  310 454 8,672  3,934  2007 2004 6930 W illiams Rd
Norfolk, V A — 1,138  26,989  — 1,138  26,989  2,342  2019 2014 155 Kingsley Lane
North Canton, OH 12,967  2,518  24,452  17 2,518  24,469  869 2019 2014 7442 Frank A venue
North Easton, MA — 2,336  19,876  13 2,336  19,889  966 2019 2007 15 Roche Brothers W ay
North Easton, MA — 2,882  15,999  12 2,882  16,01 1 752 2019 2008 31 Roche Brothers W ay
Norwood, OH — 1,017  6,638  29 1,017  6,667  513 2019 2006 4685 Forest A venue
Novi, MI — 895 36,944  16 895 36,960  2,681  2019 2008 26750 Providence Parkway
Oklahoma City , OK — 216 18,762  187 216 18,949  5,982  2013 2008 535 NW 9th Street
Oxford, NC — 478 4,971  — 478 4,971  339 2019 2011 107 East McClanahan Street
Pasadena, TX — 1,700  8,009  158 1,700  8,167  1,532  2012 2013 5001 E Sam Houston Parkway S
Pearland, TX — 1,500  11,253  6 1,500  11,259  2,021  2012 2013 2515 Business Center Drive
Pearland, TX — 9,594  32,753  191 9,807  32,731  7,497  2014 2013 11511 Shadow Creek Parkway
Phoenix, AZ — 199 3,853  131 199 3,984  349 2019 1980 9225 N 3rd Street
Phoenix, AZ — 109 2,207  65 109 2,272  219 2019 1986 9327 North 3rd Street
Phoenix, AZ — 229 5,867  21 229 5,888  653 2019 1994 9100 N 2nd Street
Phoenix, AZ — 1,149  48,018  12,830  1,149  60,848  29,815  2006 1998 2222 E. Highland A ve.
Plano, TX — 793 83,209  5,220  793 88,429  26,476  2012 2005 6020 W est Parker Road
Plantation, FL — 8,563  10,666  6,012  8,575  16,666  9,013  2006 1997 851-865 SW 78th A ve.
Port Orchard, W A 9,767  2,810  22,716  102 2,810  22,818  1,958  2018 1995 450 South Kitsap Boulevard
Porter , TX — 3,746  15,119 — 3,746  15,119 346 2018 2019 25553 US Highway 59
Poughkeepsie, NY — 2,144  36,880  252 2,144  37,132  1,178  2019 2008 2507 South Road
Poughkeepsie, NY — 4,035  30,459  21 4,035  30,480  872 2019 2010 30 Columbia Street
Poughkeepsie, NY — 6,513  27,863  21 6,513  27,884  901 2019 2006 600 W estage Drive
Poughkeepsie, NY 18,770  5,128  20,769  15 5,128  20,784  686 2019 2012 1910 South Road
Prince Frederick, MD — 229 26,889  34 229 26,923  1,798  2019 2009 130 Hospital Road
Prince Frederick, MD — 179 12,801  259 179 13,060  1,031  2019 1991 110 Hospital Road
Rancho Mirage, CA — 7,292  15,141  14 7,292  15,155  828 2019 2005 72780 Country Club Drive
Redmond, W A — 5,015  26,697  1,080  5,015  27,777  10,609  2010 2011 18100 NE Union Hill Rd.
Richmond, TX — 2,000  9,118 4 2,000  9,122  1,084  2015 2016 22121 FM 1093 Road
Richmond, V A — 2,969  26,697  1,482  3,090  28,058  10,687  2012 2008 7001 Forest A venue
Rockwall, TX — 132 17,197  448 132 17,645  5,281  2012 2008 3142 Horizon Road
Rolla, MO — 1,931  47,639  1 1,931  47,640  16,641  2011 2009 1605 Martin Spring Drive
Rome, GA — 99 29,597  725 99 30,322  3,235  2019 2005 330 T urner McCall Boulevard
Roseville, MN — 2,963  20,169  59 2,963  20,228  1,064  2019 1994 1835 W County Road C
Roxboro, NC — 368 2,477  — 368 2,477  171 2019 2000 799 Doctors Court(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
San Antonio, TX — 3,050  12,073  55 3,050  12,128  1,153  2016 2017 5206 Research Drive
San Antonio, TX — 2,915  11,141  1,746  2,915  12,887  1,157  2019 2006 150 E Sonterra Blvd
Santa Clarita, CA — — 2,338  20,605  5,304  17,639  4,488  2014 1976 23861 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA — — 28,384  2,703  5,277  25,810  6,014  2014 1998 23929 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA — 278 185 11,594  11,872  185 206 2014 1996 23871 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA 25,000  295 39,284  — 295 39,284  7,523  2014 2013 23803 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA — — 20,618  1,276  4,407  17,487  4,184  2014 1989 24355 L yons A venue
Seattle, W A — 4,410  38,428  449 4,410  38,877  19,658  2010 2010 5350 T allman A ve
Sewell, NJ — 1,242  11,616  6 1,242  11,622  1,282  2018 2007 556 Egg Harbor Road
Shakopee, MN 5,115 509 11,350  15 509 11,365  4,895  2010 1996 1515 St Francis A ve
Shakopee, MN 8,617  707 18,089  195 773 18,218  6,179  2010 2007 1601 St Francis A ve
Shenandoah, TX — — 21,135  62 4,574  16,623  2,504  2013 2014 106 V ision Park Boulevard
Sherman Oaks, CA — — 32,186  3,591  3,121  32,656  8,361  2014 1969 4955 V an Nuys Boulevard
Silverdale, W A 12,846  3,451  21,176  12 3,451  21,188  1,838  2018 2004 2200 NW Myhre Road
Southlake, TX — 3,000  — — 3,000  — — 2014 1900 Central A venue
Southlake, TX — 2,875  15,471  — 2,875  15,471  1,185  2019 2017 925 E. Southlake Boulevard
Southlake, TX — 592 18,036  — 592 18,036  6,515  2012 2004 1545 East Southlake Boulevard
Southlake, TX — 698 30,549  48 698 30,597  9,556  2012 2004 1545 East Southlake Boulevard
Springfield, MA — 2,721  6,615  6 2,721  6,621  428 2019 2012 305 Bicentennial Highway
St Paul, MN — 49 37,695  396 49 38,091  7,590  2014 2006 225 Smith A venue N.
St. Paul, MN — 2,706  39,507  392 2,701  39,904  15,060  2011 2007 435 Phalen Boulevard
Stockton, CA 11,436  4,966  16,844  13 4,966  16,857  797 2019 2009 2388 - 2488 N California Street
Suffern, NY — 696 37,21 1 46 696 37,257  15,306  2011 2007 257 Lafayette A venue
Suffolk, V A — 1,566  11,511 293 1,620  11,750  5,486  2010 2007 5838 Harbour V iew Blvd.
Sugar Land, TX — 3,543  15,532  — 3,543  15,532  7,054  2012 2005 11555 University Boulevard
Sycamore, IL — 1,113 12,910  2,473  1,113 15,383  535 2020 2002 1630 Gateway Drive
Tacoma, W A — — 64,307  — — 64,307  23,421  2011 2013 1608 South J Street
Tampa, FL — 4,319  12,234  — 4,319  12,234  3,558  2011 2003 14547 Bruce B Downs Blvd
Tarzana, CA — 6,115 15,510  1,868  6,115 17,378  1,085  2020 1986 5620 W ilbur A ve
Timonium, MD — 8,829  12,568  247 8,850  12,794  1,869  2015 2017 2118 Greenspring Drive
Tustin, CA — 3,345  541 223 3,345  764 384 2015 1976 14591 Newport A ve
Tustin, CA — 3,361  12,039  3,530  3,361  15,569  3,981  2015 1985 14642 Newport A ve
Tyler, TX 60,479  2,903  114,853  72 2,903  114,925  3,795  2019 2013 1814 Roseland Boulevard
Van Nuys, CA — — 36,187  — — 36,187  12,029  2009 1991 6815 Noble A ve.
Voorhees, NJ — 6,404  24,251  1,832  6,477  26,010  11,369  2006 1997 900 Centennial Blvd.
Voorhees, NJ — 6 96,075  907 99 96,889  33,093  2010 2012 200 Bowman Drive
Waco, TX — 125 164 — 125 164 8 2018 1962 6612 Fish Pond Road
Waco, TX — 35 113 — 35 113 6 2018 1961 6620 Fish Pond Rd
Waco, TX 14,046  2,250  28,632  346 2,250  28,978  2,479  2018 1981 601 Highway 6 W est
Waco, TX — 441 2,537  852 441 3,389  471 2018 2000 6600 Fish Pond Rd
Washington, P A 18,899  3,981  31,706  17 3,981  31,723  2,778  2018 2010 100 T rich Drive
Wausau, WI — 2,050  12,175  — 2,050  12,175  1,658  2015 2017 1901 W estwood Center Boulevard
Waxahachie, TX — 303 18,069  6 303 18,075  3,403  2016 2014 2460 N I-35 East
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Wellington, FL — 107 16,933  2,490  326 19,204  8,355  2006 2000 10115 Forest Hill Blvd.
Wellington, FL — 580 11,047  11 580 11,058  5,315  2007 2003 1395 State Rd. 7
Westlake V illage, CA 8,000  2,553  15,851  157 2,553  16,008  1,904  2018 1975 1250 La V enta Drive
Westlake V illage, CA 6,360  2,487  9,776  114 2,487  9,890  1,149  2018 1989 1220 La V enta Drive
Winston-Salem, NC — 2,006  7,497  260 2,006  7,757  1,184  2019 1998 2025 Frontis Plaza
Woodbridge, V A — 346 16,534  21 346 16,555  1,236  2018 2012 12825 Minnieville Road
Wyandotte, MI — 581 8,023  773 581 8,796  312 2020 2002 1700 Biddle A ve
Yuma, AZ — 1,592  10,185  4 1,592  10,189  1,116 2019 2004 2270 South Ridgeview Drive
Zephyrhills, FL — 3,875  27,270  — 3,875  27,270  8,708  2011 1974 38135 Market Square Dr
Outpatient Medical
Total $ 548,229  $ 765,282  $ 5,363,198  $ 334,253  $ 841,094  $ 5,621,639  $ 1,117,372  (1)
(1)
118
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2020  
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuildings &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuildings &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Assets Held For Sale:  
Albuquerque, NM $ — $ 1,270  $ 20,837  $ — $ — $ 13,230  $ — 2010 1984 500 Paisano St NE
Brookline, MA — — 17,435  — — 17,435  — 2019 1900 110 Fisher A venue
Castle Rock, CO — 80 9,667  — — 9,667  — 2014 2013 2352 Meadows Boulevard
Castle Rock, CO — — — 10,480  — 10,480  — 2016 2017 Meadows Boulevard
Glendale, CA — — — 11,228  — 11,228  — 2007 2002 222 W . Eulalia St.
Irving, TX — 1,030  2,450  — — 2,450  — 2007 1999 8855 W est V alley Ranch Parkway
Lakewood, W A — — — 11,639  — 11,639  — 2012 2005 11307 Bridgeport W ay SW
Las V egas, NV — — — 2,945  — 2,945  — 2007 1900SW corner of Deer Springs W ay and
Riley Street
Lincoln, NE — — — 19,641  — 19,641  — 2010 2003 575 South 70th St
Powell, TN — — 25,692  — — 25,692  — 2019 2005 7557 A Dannaher Drive
Powell, TN — — 34,994  — — 34,994  — 2019 2008 7557 B Dannaher Drive
Reno, NV — — — 14,413  — 14,413  — 2006 1991 343 Elm St.
Rexbur g, ID — 1,267  3,213  — — 67 — 2018 1988 660 South 2nd W est
St. Louis, MO — 336 17,247  — — 11,772  — 2007 2001 2325 Dougherty Ferry Rd.
Toledo, OH — 2,040  47,129  — — 30,960  — 2010 1985 3501 Executive Parkway
Assets Held For Sale
Total $ — $ 6,023  $ 178,664  $ 70,346  $ — $ 216,613  $ — 
119
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period
EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuildings &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuildings &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation
Summary:        
Seniors Housing Operating $ 1,706,192  $ 1,466,472  $ 13,489,025  $ 2,648,613  $ 1,642,393  $ 15,961,717  $ 3,554,697  
Triple-net 123,652  905,073  7,397,004  596,731  957,163  7,941,645  1,432,228  
Outpatient Medical 548,229  765,282  5,363,198  334,253  841,094  5,621,639  1,117,372  
Construction in progress — — 487,742  — — 487,742  — 
Total continuing operating pr operties 2,378,073  3,136,827  26,736,969  3,579,597  3,440,650  30,012,743  6,104,297  
Assets held for sale — 6,023  178,664  70,346  — 216,613  — 
Total investments in r eal pr operty owned $ 2,378,073  $ 3,142,850  $ 26,915,633  $ 3,649,943  $ 3,440,650  $ 30,229,356  $ 6,104,297  
 Please see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding lives used for depreciation and amortization.
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
 (in thousands)  
Investment in real estate:    
Beginning balance $ 36,027,915 $ 33,590,388 $ 30,581,948 
Acquisitions and development 1,174,148 4,807,418 4,598,670 
Improvements 242,147 328,824 266,183 
Impairment of assets (135,608) (28,074) (71,336)
Dispositions (3,782,120) (2,673,203) (1,330,679)
Foreign currency translation 143,524 187,853 (454,398)
Other — (185,291) — 
Ending balance $ 33,670,006 $ 36,027,915 $ 33,590,388 
Accumulated depreciation:
Beginning balance $ 5,715,459 $ 5,499,958 $ 4,838,370 
Depreciation and amortization expenses 1,038,437 1,027,073 950,459 
Amortization of above market leases 5,217 5,752 6,375 
Disposition and other (684,395) (772,273) (205,562)
Foreign currency translation 29,579 (45,051) (89,684)
Ending balance $ 6,104,297 $ 5,715,459 $ 5,499,958 
 Includes property dispositions and dispositions of leasehold improvements which are generally fully depreciated.
 Primarily relates to the adoption of ASC 842.
 The unaudited aggregate cost for tax purposes for real property equals $30,050,020,000 at December 31, 2020.(1)
(1)
(2)
(3)
 (1)
(1)
(2)
(3)
120
Welltower Inc.
Schedule IV - Mortgage Loans on Real Estate
December 31, 2020
    (in thousands)
Location SegmentInterest
RateFinal Maturity
DateMonthly
Payment
TermsPrior
LiensFace
Amount of
MortgagesCarrying
Amount of
MortgagesPrincipal
Amount of
Loans Subject
to Delinquent
Principal or
Interest
First mortgages relating to 1 property located in:     
United Kingdom Triple-net 7.25% 3/15/2022$ 143 $ — $ 28,652 $ 23,104 $ — 
United Kingdom Triple-net 8.53% 7/7/2021 144 — 20,493 20,107 — 
Pennsylvania Triple-net 8.72% 3/1/2022 108 — 15,530 14,795 — 
North Carolina Triple-net 7.83% 12/18/2023 92 — 32,783 31,993 — 
Texas Outpatient Medical 7.86% 1/19/2025 24 — 3,740 1,701 — 
United Kingdom Triple-net 8.50% 2/1/2024 95 — 20,464 19,549 — 
— 121,662 111,249 — 
First mortgages relating to multiple properties located in:
United Kingdom Outpatient Medical 7.10% 8/20/2021 972 — 181,022 173,361 — 
— 181,022 173,361 — 
Second mortgages relating to 1 property located in:     
Florida Triple-net 10.27% 10/21/2025 54 — 6,250 6,098 — 
Florida Seniors Housing Operating 10.14% 8/15/2025 23 — 12,500 3,044 — 
— 18,750 9,142 — 
Totals     $ — $321,434 $293,752 $ — 
 
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Reconciliation of mortgage loans: (in thousands)
Balance at beginning of year $ 145,686 $ 249,071 $ 306,120 
Additions:
New mortgage loans 193,505 — 25,290 
Draws on existing loans 20,844 45,961 36,458 
            Total additions 214,349 45,961 61,748 
Deductions:
Collections of principal (17,019) (87,249) (116,905)
Loan balance transferred to non-real estate loans receivable (53,071) (64,040) — 
Change in allowance for credit losses and charge-offs (5,645) — — 
Other (329) — — 
Total deductions (76,064) (151,289) (116,905)
Change in balance due to foreign currency translation 9,781 1,944 (1,892)
Balance at end of year $ 293,752 $ 145,686 $ 249,071 
121
